MINERAL Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe yesterday moved to allay negative sentiments that the ANC’s land reform programme would drive “whites into the sea”. Addressing the National Forum for Dialogue on Land, Heritage and Human Rights in Johannesburg, Mantashe used the occasion to counter the resistance to the ANC’s push for a constitutional review on land expropriation without compensation. “The fears of those who sit on the land when you talk about expropriation without
compensation. It is not our policy to drive the whites into the sea. “It will never be the policy of the ANC, unless the ANC becomes something else. “It is about fair distribution of land and giving our people access to that
land,” he said. Mantashe’s comments came against the background of scores of protesters who marched in Australia last weekend in support of white South African farmers being given special refugee status in the country following Parliament’s passing of the motion to carry out land expropriation without compensation. In addition, a wave of land grabs have swept through some parts of Gauteng, which the ANC has wasted little time in condemning. Parliament’s constitutional review committee will also embark on a series of intensive roadshows in May on the amendment of the property clause of the Constitution. Responding to the spate of attempted land grabs that has gripped parts of Gauteng, Mantashe condemned the acts, calling for the country’s law enforcement agencies to move swiftly to halt the situation. Regarding fears that the implementation of land expropriation without transformation would drive potential investment away from the country’s agricultural sector, Mantashe assured businesses they had nothing to fear. “We must ensure that we do not undermine future investment in the economy, or damage agricultural production and food security. Our interventions must not cause harm to other
sectors of the economy,” he said. Mantashe called for an open and honest dialogue about land reform in a bid for all affected stakeholders to reach common ground. “Let us have a debate on land, let us talk and agree on how to manage the situation so that it may allow all of us to have access to land,” Mantashe said. “As we forge ahead, we should talk to each other, we should engage, listen and understand each other. “As we debate, we must touch the emotional aspects of land dispossession. If we don’t, we will not heal the wounds of the past,” Mantashe said. Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform Maite Nkoana-Mashabane said she would not be drawn into a debate about Australia’s reaction to the country’s land reform debate. “Leave the Australian minister of home affairs alone. We don’t want to enter that space. We don’t have time,” she said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za