The government has implored traditional leaders and communities to join the fight to reverse the resurgence of tuberculosis (TB) in the country. The government also wants communities to end discrimination against people suffering from diseases regarded as lethal such like HIV and TB. Deputy President David Mabuza made the call yesterday at the country’s commemoration of world TB Day in Durban. He said Durban was chosen because it was the metro with the most TB infections. On the role of traditional leaders, Mabuza said they must lead from the front to complement the government which would ensure that healthcare for TB sufferers was readily available. “Our traditional leaders, by their close proximity with our people, carry a huge responsibility to reverse the tide against new TB infections and TB-related deaths. “Working with you, we have a better opportunity of ending the TB epidemic by 2030. This is also a call to leaders in all avenues of human endeavour. It is a call to action to leaders in government, civil society organisations, academia and industry.” Mabuza also urged communities to stop discriminating against people with the disease and help them stick to their six-month TB medication intake. He said that would help to defeat the disease, which twins with HIV. “Stigma is still very prevalent in our communities and leaders have a critical role to play in ensuring that we get rid of stigma for all diseases, especially TB and HIV. “That is why we are calling on all leaders, starting with traditional leaders, to take action. People die alone, silently fearing the burden of being shamed and discriminated against,” he said. Speaking at the same gathering, Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini emphasised the importance of testing for TB. He said in 2010 one of his sons, Prince Nhlanganiso, was diagnosed with the disease. “This disease affects all of us. It even affected us in the royal family when my son was diagnosed with it in 2010,” Zwelithini said. He echoed Mabuza and urged traditional leaders to join the fight and stop discriminating against people. Who have the disease. “Let us show leadership by ending TB by 2030 or even sooner than that”. StatsSA said that in 2015, there were 460000 recorded deaths from various causes. Of these, TB contributed 33000, followed by diabetes, which contributed 25000 deaths. sihlem@thenewage.co.za