WHILE the 2019 national and provincial elections might still be months away, the ANC is wasting little time in capturing the hearts and minds of voters. Sources in the party told The New Age that following the election of Cyril Ramaphosa and a new leadership team at the December elective conference, its business wing, the Progressive Business Forum (PBF), has been tasked with raising as much as R1bn for an election war chest. The recent deployment of ANC leaders to Luthuli House, include former police minister Fikile Mbalula to run the party’s electoral machinery. Senzo Mchunu and Dakota Legoete will head the party’s organising and campaigns committee to restore voter confidence following a disastrous local government performance
in 2016, which saw the party losing the key metros of Johannesburg, Tshwane and Nelson Mandela Bay to the DA. The ANC has already budgeted an interim amount of R264m which it plans to spend in the next few months on rallies, buying T-shirts, paying accommodation and buses for transport, paying volunteers and for audiovisual equipment among others. The sources also said the party will use this year’s Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations to invoke sentiment over the historic 1994 electoral campaign led by its late iconic leader. “This is an all-out war. Following the setback in 2016 and subsequent strife ahead of last year’s conference, there is a new, buoyant mood in our ranks. Celebrating Madiba’s centenary and the new unity process has given us a timeous boost ahead of next year’s elections. “The opposition parties have started their celebrations prematurely. They will eat their words over the imminent death of the ANC once the 2019 election results are announced,” the sources said. They said the party would not wait to kick off its campaign. “The battle for 2019 starts right now. The NEC has deployed the leadership to Luthuli House and the province with elections in mind.” The sources also said internal ructions in the DA and the state of the party’s alliance with the EFF had contributed to its new-found confidence. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe was unavailable for comment. In a move to ensure that voters come out in force at the polls, the ANC’s deployee to the presidential office in Luthuli House, Zizi Kodwa, said that the reasoning behind the changes made to help strengthen the organisation, was to monitor and assess the impact of ANC policies on the ground. “One of the resolutions of the conference was to limit deployees to the government and to capacitate Luthuli House to drive the agenda of the organisation,” Kodwa said “This is to actually monitor and evaluate the efficacy of our policies and to what extent our policies meet their objectives. That is not office work, it means we must be on the ground to make sure we are able to make an observation of the efficacy of our policies.” ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said the party’s deployment of party leaders to head various structures in the organisation was geared towards capacitating the organisation. “It’s not just a structure for the sake of having structures. It’s structures that are committed to expanding the influence of the ANC. That’s what it’s about,” she said. Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini welcomed the changes made and expressed confidence in the team. “Those are tried and tested cadres of the ANC. They will help ensure that the ANC’s campaign for the 2019 general election is a success,” he said. SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo argued that changes made at Luthuli House ahead of next year’s election augured well in boosting the ANC’s election campaign. “The action taken goes a long way in building the organisational and mobilisation capacity of the ANC. There is no doubt about it. If you look at the changes made, they comply with the principle of proper preparations to prevent poor performance,” he said. However, UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said of the ANC election strategy: “We wish them good luck. They are going overseas to raise money and I guess that is an ANC matter. For a long time they have been using money from state owned enterprises and government during campaigning for buses, T-shirts and others. That should not be the case. We wish them well.” Cope’s Deidre Carter was even more doubtful. “As they lose power they will start losing legitimate money and resources. They have lost a number of metros and they must be feeling the pinch,” Carter said. “It is immoral that so much money will be spent on campaigning while three children out of five go to bed hungry. This budget will still go up and they will end up using government resources.” -SIFISO MAHLANGU, BONOLO SELEBANO, KUTULLO MADISHAAND HLONI MASHIGO