Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi on Monday confirmed that a Three Rivers Secondary School pupil has been suspended after she assaulted a teacher. This followed outcry following a video went viral on social media last week, showing the pupil throwing an exercise book at the teacher in a classroom. Speaking from the school, located in Vereeniging, Lesufi said that after preliminary investigations, a letter to suspend the pupil was issued but the department was finding a way of dealing with the investigation and ensuring that the pupil’s education was not affected in any way. According to Lesufi, the parents of the pupil feel that she was provoked and want the department to intervene. The MEC revealed that more video footage of the incident had already surfaced, which showed what happened prior to the pupil’s actions and it showed the pupil apparently making undesirable comments toward the teacher. “We cannot play the other videos because we would be playing into a space of a possible media frenzy, so we need to be careful of that aspect but there is way more that happened before and after the video that’s on social media,” Lesufi said. Meanwhile, Lesufi confirmed that he had met with the affected educator. “She shows commitment to the profession and psycho social services will be given to her.” He also commended the teacher for keeping her cool during the incident and behaving in a responsible manner. “We are not going to have a place where a teacher is treated that way and we cannot have teachers that are taken for granted.” Meanwhile, the Education for Social Justice Foundation has condemned violence in South African schools, reiterating its call for government to install cameras in classrooms. The foundation said the attack on the teacher by the pupil must be prioritised by police. “We therefore call on the Department of Basic Education to immediately expel the pupil who was involved in the harassment of the teacher without any delay. We want the government to act decisively to restore law and order in schools to maintain the necessary
confidence of parents and members of the public in our schooling system,” the organisation’s deputy chairperson Hendrick Makaneta said. However, while Lesufi conceded that placing cameras in classrooms could help deal with incidents of crime on school grounds, he said that the department was currently not in a position to move forward with the suggestion. “I would vouch for cameras to be installed in schools but unfortunately we do not have the financial capacity.” -TNA Reporter