The Gauteng MEC for Community Safety, Sizakele Nkosi–Malobane, is outraged by the alleged kidnapping of children in Gauteng. On Friday last week, two men were assaulted following an alleged case of an attempted abduction of a young girl in Eldorado Park. According to information, it is alleged that the suspects were collecting second-hand goods for recycling purposes around Eldorado community and attempted to kidnap a young girl near a school in the area. In a video that went viral on social media, community members went on a rampage, throwing stones and plastic pipes to the two alleged suspects resulting in the suspects taken to a nearby hospital to receive medical attention after sustaining injuries. mob justice in Eldorado Park. pic.twitter.com/u6su3kiF95 — Busisiwe Msibi (@Bucy_goodness) March 17, 2018 The happenings of Eldorado Park Standing together against child kidnapping pic.twitter.com/soCuGysUGv — Vincent (@vincentdgm) March 16, 2018 This 2 fine gentleman were caught trying to kidnap a little girl in Eldorado, South Africa.
Thank goodness they were caught, heavens know what they would have done to her… pic.twitter.com/9BlGG9gVFN — Willem Petzer (@willempet) March 16, 2018 In another incident, the search for the missing three-year-old, Liyaqat “Lee” Mentoor, is underway as he was abducted in Roodekrans on the 16th of March 2018. According to information “Lee” was taken by a couple in a silver vehicle after being dropped at his grandmother’s house in Roodekrans area. The mother’s boyfriend has since been arrested and appeared in Roodepoort magistrate court today. The case has been postponed for further investigation. “I condemn with the strongest possible terms the alleged kidnapping incidents of children in Gauteng. In the same breath, I also condemn the assault of suspects by community members in Eldorado Park following the kidnapping incident. It is a constitutional right for members of our communities to organize themselves and engage in a peaceful protest but once that right is violated, it is then categorized as a crime. Communities have avenues they can explore to raise their policing concerns instead of resorting to assault and violent protests. These avenues include raising their concerns with their local Community Policing Forum, the Cluster Commander or lay a complaint at my department’s complaints division so that the matter can be investigated and resolved. The reports of Liyaqat’s abduction in Roodekrans are shocking especially after being dropped off by someone who is entrusted with protecting and nurturing him. I have instructed the Law Enforcement Agencies to investigate both these cases accordingly and ensure that justice is served,” said MEC Nkosi-Malobane. -TNA Reporter