SCORES of families from the Eastern Cape gathered at the Mamelodi West Cemetery in Tshwane yesterday as the remains of eight members of the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) armed wing, Poqo, who were hanged by the apartheid regime were exhumed. Traditional rituals and prayers were performed by families who said they were relieved to be reconnected with the activists who were hanged from 1963 to 1967 at the then Pretoria Central Prison gallows, now known as Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Centre. The hangings were a result of an intense political protest in Paarl in 1962 when members of the PAC (Poqo) in the single men’s migrant worker hostels in Mbekweni township undertook a series of campaigns and attacks on suspected informers and white residents. Mass arrests and trials ensued in the years that followed and 20 PAC members were ultimately hanged for the events in Paarl. Scores of others were sentenced to terms of imprisonment. The bodies of the hanged political prisoners remained the property of the state and were given pauper burials in municipal cemeteries around Pretoria. Families were denied the opportunity to bury them. Sisters Victoria Mangezi, 65 and Ntombizanele Moitsane, 59, were among the families who for the first time had came to visit their father’s grave yesterday. Their father, Joseph Bhazalele Moitsane, was killed at the age of 28 in December 1963. He was among the eight who were buried in pauper graves on the same day that they were hanged. “It is painful to witness this. He left us while we were still young. As the family we knew that he had died but we did not know the whereabouts of the grave,” Mangezi said. Among the families was that of Titus Tembekile Nyovu, 29, who was hanged on October 14, 1963 for the killing of a white resident of Paarl, Renschia Vermeulen. Jonathan Sogwagwa, 30 and Vanele Matikinca, 35, were hanged on September 27, 1963 for the killing of a Poqo member, George Tshisa, who was suspected of giving information to the authorities. Joseph Bhazalele Mqitsane, 28, and Aaron Kinki Njokwana, 23, were hanged on December 11, 1963 for the killing of three young women who had transgressed Poqo rules. The ninth activist, Nkosencinci R Maseti, hanged on September 26 1967 for the killing of suspected informer Klaas Hoza, will be exhumed today from Rebecca Street Cemetery in Pretoria West. Today the families will be taken through the gallows at the Kgosi Mampuru prison. These exhumations form part of the Gallows Exhumation Project launched by Minister Michael Masutha in 2016, aimed at recovering the remains of the political prisoners who were hanged on the gallows prior to the suspension of the death penalty in 1990. kutullom@thenewage.co.za