Police Minister Bheki Cele has ordered the immediate and indefinite closure of major taxi routes in Mthatha and surrounding areas, as a result of ongoing conflict. The decision was taken following a meeting with Eastern Cape transport, safety and liaison MEC Weziwe Tikana, SAPS provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga and the top executive of the two rival taxi operators, Uncedo Service Taxi Association and Border Alliance Taxi Association, who failed to take responsibility for the ongoing violence which has claimed the lives of both operators and passengers. The closure will affect the R61 and the N2 junction to Maclear and Tsolo. The conflict has claimed 60 lives since 2016. The closure comes after several attempts, including the signing of a peace accord, which was initiated by the provincial government in order to bring peace to the warring parties. Cele said South Africans have now had enough with the selfishness of the taxi industry, hence the decision to close the routes. “The selfishness of the taxi industry must be cut to zero, we cannot continue to count dead bodies like a taxi load. Sixty people is a big number, the killings must be eradicated or else taxi operators will lose their business. The routes belong to the citizens of this country and are not to be manipulated by taxi bosses for selfish financial gains,” Cele said. Cele said, unless there was absolute compliance to the peace accord, the routes would be closed indefinitely because it was not the first time that a peace accord had been signed. He said government was prepared to defend the decision should the affected associations approach the courts. “After the signing of the ceasefire agreement, 13 people have been killed and 17 cases of attempted murder have been registered; we are not a banana republic, therefore, a business cannot continue as usual. In fact, the taxi business can rather go down to its knees instead of masquerading as a funeral parlor.” He said a team of specialised forces had been deployed to strategic and volatile areas to maintain law and order and to furthermore increase police visibility for the benefit of the safety of ordinary citizens. -TNA Reporter