The Black First Land First (BLF) movement on Monday laid criminal charges against Enterprise Foods ‏after its factory in Polokwane was identified as the origin of the listeriosis outbreak. BLF leader Andile Mngxitama said that they had opened cases against, Tiger Brands, Enterprise Foods, and Rainbow Chicken. He said that there were two charges laid, one for murder and one for attempted murder. This is in relation to the 180 people who have recently died as result of listeriosis. Meanwhile, the attempted murder charge was for “survivors” of the listeriosis outbreak. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi on Sunday announced that an investigation had revealed the food company’s Polokwane factory as the culprit. Polony and other cold meat products from the Enterprise factory were identified as contaminated products. The public was also warned about other products such as vienna, russians, frankfurters and other sausages that can be consumed without being pre-cooked, as they could also be contaminated. #enterprise has known about #listeriosis since last month and did nothing! That’s murder! BLF to open case of murder against Enterprise Foods and Rainbow Chicken. Today at 12pm. Hope minister Cele will act firmly and urgently — andile (@Mngxitama) March 5, 2018 “Actually, Enterprise must be shut down! They knew for 18 days that they were selling us poison and did fokol! This is premeditated murder for profits. We must visit their head offices,” BLF leader Andile Mngxitama said. Following his announcement on Sunday, Motsoaledi said that a recall on these food products had been initiated. Enterprise Foods said it heeded the call by the minister to recall contaminated products. “Enterprise Foods confirms that it is undertaking a full national recall on the Enterprise ready-to-eat meat products. As per the Minister of Health’s instructions, please remove any Enterprise ready-to-eat meat products from your fridge and place in a plastic bag – away from other foods,” Enterprise Foods said in a statement. -TNA Reporter