MORE than 22 600 voting stations throughout the country are ready to help eligible voters who either want to register or check their details at the weekend, the Independent Electoral Commission announced yesterday. “We are ready to open all voting stations this weekend for voters to easily update their address details on the voters roll and for first-time voters to register. We need voters to show up and make use of the opportunity,” chief electoral officer Sy Mamabolo said. Voting stations will be staffed by more than 73000 election officials, 42% of who are young people under 35, 64% are unemployed and 73% are women. Despite its best efforts to collect the addresses of voters, the Electoral Commission said, there are 2.8 million voters who do not have addresses and a further 3.5 million addresses classified as “incomplete| or “generic”. “The voters’ roll is a fundamental safeguard for free and fair elections. It is an instrument for facilitating electoral participation, which is placed at the disposal of political parties for campaign purposes. It serves a functional purpose as a planning tool for accurate provision
of electoral material and the avoidance of electoral fraud,” chief electoral officer Sy Mamabolo said. He urged all voters to make every effort to visit their voting stations during the weekend of March 10 and 11. IEC chief deputy chairperson Terry Tselane said voters did not worry about producing proof of residence for registration as it was not a legal requirement. “Legislation does not require a voter to provide us with proof of residence when registering. That is to accommodate all South Africans, some of whom have no property or proof of residence,” Tselane said. Mamabolo said the registration weekend was evidence of the Electoral Commission’s early start to its preparations for the 2019 elections. The elections are expected to take place between May and August 2019. “Critically, this registration weekend is a milestone towards the culmination of a two-year project to obtain addresses for all registered voters by June 2018. It is also an opportunity to ensure that voters are registered in the correct voting district segments,” he said. In 2016 the Constitutional Court gave the electoral commission until June 2018 to update the voters’ roll with all available addresses. The commission said it had made progress in the last two years in updating addresses on the voters’ roll including, increasing the proportion of complete addresses from 34% of registered voters in March 2016 to 75% of registered voters currently and reducing the percentage of registered voters without any recorded address from 32% to approximately 11%. Mamabolo urged the voters to update their details before the end of May. “Our website remains active, registered voters will be able to update their details if they are not able to visit voting stations.” He said the department of home affairs will also open its offices from 8am to 5pm on Saturday and Sunday to help the registration drive. -TNA Reporter