THE ANC has reaffirmed South Africa’s position on the Western Sahara issue, vowing to intensify its solidarity campaign with the area by accelerating and deepening support aid. This is after the party noted the Morocco’s Support to African Liberation Movements, at the patronage of His Majesty the Moroccan King Mohamed VI, on occupied Western Sahara. “The ANC calls on Morocco to desist from using such forums to justify its occupation of Western Sahara. Such symposia aim to boost Morocco’s stature as a mainstay in the liberation of Africa and imply therefore that the international community should support Morocco’s current colonial occupation on Western Sahara,” convener of the ANC NEC international relations subcommittee Lindiwe Zulu said. Zulu said they reaffirmed the resolutions of 54th ANC national conference on Western Sahara which included resuscitating historic fraternal relations with the Polisario Front as allies in the struggle against injustice, colonialism and apartheid. Zulu said that they would affirm that Western Sahara was the only remaining colony in Africa. She said the party has condemned the withdrawal by Morocco from the UN-led peace process and supports UN efforts to bring both parties back to the negotiating table, the ANC would have engagements to ensure that the proposed UN referendum in Western Sahara takes place. “The ANC urges the international community, and the UN in particular, to assume without further delay, their legal and moral responsibility on granting respect to the inalienable right for selfdetermination of the people of Western Sahara,” Zulu said. Furthermore, Zulu said the ANC expressed its solidarity with the Sahara political prisoners and human rights defenders and called on the international community to pressure Morocco into lifting the military, security and media blackout imposed in the occupied territories of Western Sahara. “The ANC salutes the struggle and determination of the people, both in occupied and liberated zones, as well as in refugee camps under the leadership of the Polisario Front,” she said. Zulu said the South African government would send a special envoy to address the issue. news@thenewage.co.za -TNA Reporter