The city of Cape Town is investigating a case of brutality after three traffic officers were filmed manhandling an elderly man before placing him under arrest in Athlone. In the video posted on social media by the victim’s daughter, the man Zainoedien Allie, 51, can be seen being thrown to the ground by the officers. The victim’s daughter Bashiera Allie on Facebook, posted the video and said: “Guys share this. Traffic police brutality against my dad. #police abuse #unlawful arrest #corrupt traffic cops for the explanation of what happened from my dad see the second uncut video. We are not hiding anything and we commend the cops that do good as we need them in our community but we stand up to corruption as should we all. The case was seen in court today and thrown out. Traffic cops cannot arrest you they can only detain you until SAPS comes #know your rights. “The incident happened on Monday along Belmore Avenue. My uncle had tried to contact my dad but then a traffic officer pulled my uncle over for driving with a cellphone. My uncle told my dad he was pulled over by police and my dad went to where they were to assist my uncle.” Mayoral committee member for safety, security and social services JP Smith, said the city viewed the allegations of police brutality very seriously and the matter was receiving urgent attention. “The overall conduct of the officers in terms of their behaviour at the scene, their professionalism and compliance with the law will have to be determined. “We will also have to get the officers’ version of events. The city calls on anyone with information about the incident to come forward and assist us in our investigation. This investigation will be completed in addition to whatever criminal investigation the SAPS is conducting into the matter.” Her father apparently removed his brother’s sim card and battery from the handset that was to be impounded. “My dad then wanted to leave from where they were still filling out paperwork for my uncle and that is when a traffic officer blocked his way. He was ordered to get out of his vehicle by two traffic officers,” Bashiera said. At this point, the daughter said, officers wanted to execute an arrest. “My dad wanted to know the grounds for the arrest but none of them could answer him. A group of traffic officers surrounded him and proceeded to manhandle and threw him to the ground.” provinces@thenewage.co.za