National Education Health and Allied Workers’ Union (NEHAWU) says that they will be proceeding with their planned strike at the Department of Water and Sanitation starting from Thursday. “The strike is planned to commence tomorrow morning across the country in all workplaces,” said Nehawu general secretary Zola Saphetha. He said that his will also include offices and dams where members of the union are allocated. As a result, water supply in some areas is expected to be affected. The secretary said that they have informed the Minister of Water and Sanitation Gugile Nkwinti about the planned strike. However, he said that it was disappointing that the Minister “has bothered neither to acknowledge the receipt nor respond to the contents of the latter” As a result of the minister’s failure to respond to their grievances, they have resolved to proceed with the protest. “This is the first national strike in this department post-1994 democratic breakthrough and members have vowed to come out in numbers to highlight their discomfort and how the management has been treating them,” Saphetha said. The union wants the department to pay about 68% of outstanding bonuses to its members. They also want the employer to provide a safe working environment for their members and for the insourcing of all outsourced services with immediate effect. According to the union, it is through the outsourcing that corrupt activities are done in the department. “that’s where the money is chowed” Nehawu is also accusing the previous minister, Nomvula Mokonyane of being involved in these corrupt dealings. According to Saphetha, managers have also been suspended for refusing to do” irregular practices and taking unlawful instructions from the minister” Furthermore, the union also wants the department to give employees who are working on projects contracts that last for the entire period of those projects instead of annually renewing them. “The contracts of the workers must be in line with the lifespan of the project itself,” said Saphetha. Nehawu demands that these must be addressed within the next 6 months. -TNA Reporter