TROUBLES facing the Gauteng health department have eaten up more than a quarter of the overall provincial budget of R121.2bn for the next financial year. The listeriosis outbreak which has killed more people in Gauteng than anywhere else in the country and the Life Esidimeni Tragedy, which will see the province paying about R28m in victim compensation, were among the biggest areas the province would be spending money on this year. Presenting the annual provincial budget yesterday, finance MEC Barbara Creecy allocated R46.4bn to health. The second biggest chunk of R45.2bn was allocated to the provincial education department. Also, benefiting from a large increase was the department of roads and transport whose budget increases by R700m this year to R6.4bn in infrastructure money over the medium term. Creecy announced that in 2018, transport would begin planning Gauteng’s first new highway since the 1970s, which will be named the PWV 15. “Together with all Gauteng citizens, the provincial treasury welcomes Premier (David) Makhura’s announcement to approach President Cyril Ramaphosa to discuss a different mechanism to finance public transport and our road network in our province. “We agree that the e-tolls have not worked and have been rejected as a public financing mechanism by our citizens,” Creecy said. She said R23m has been allocated over the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to the office of the premier to continue strengthening the fight against corruption through the Integrity Management Programme. “As you all know, we are awaiting the final report from justice (Dikgang) Moseneke on the Life Esidimeni Tragedy. What we know at this stage is that agreement has been reached with the families of the victims in relation to individual compensation. An amount of R28m is allocated in this budget to the department of the premier, to honour this commitment.” She said this budget set out how the Gauteng government funded its commitment to equity and social justice, it outlined how it used its massive procurement spend to improve public facilities, transform the economy and create work. The 2018 Budget is up R9.1bn, or 8% from the previous year, a significant increase in tough economic times. “We plan to raise R6bn in own revenue this year to compensate for cuts to our equitable,” Creecy said. She said the Gauteng government’s R42.2bn infrastructure spend had made a major contribution to stimulating economic activity, creating employment and raising living standards in communities across the province over the past four years. “All Gauteng departments and municipalities have worked hard to ensure better financial management and greater public accountability in the use of public funds. “All provincial departments and entities and all municipalities can now boast unqualified audits with two thirds of provincial departments getting clean audits,” she said. The Open Tender procurement process remained the GPG’s flagship programme to ensure systematic elimination of irregular expenditure. “To date 75 projects have now progressed successfully through the system. “In the coming year, all new departmental tenders will be publicly adjudicated,” Creecy said. ntombin@thenewage.co.za