THE city of Tshwane is setting a trend to other capital cities by declaring all municipal facilities smoke-free. Mayor Solly Msimanga yesterday made a commitment to provide and promote a clean and healthy work environment with the objective of reducing the burden of preventable diseases within the workforce and the economy. “In Tshwane, we are working very hard towards a tobacco free generation,” Msimanga said. “There is a disconcerting link between the habit of smoking and drug experimentation and later addiction among our youth. “If we are able to discourage our youth from smoking, we have a greater chance of containing and reducing the scourge of drug addiction that is doing extensive and costly damage to our city, our residents and our future.” In September 2012, the council of the city of the Tshwane metropolitan municipality approved the revised smoking policy of the city. The policy was revised in order to ensure that it was in line with all relevant legislation, particularly the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act 85 of 1993) and the Tobacco Products Control Act, 1993 (Act 83 1993) and its regulations that were updated in 2011. The revised smoking policy dictates that those who choose to smoke may not do so within 5m of doorways, windows and a building air supply through which tobacco smoke may readily enter the building. Smokers are also required to dispose of the remains of cigarettes in proper containers in order to keep a neat and clean environment for all employees, visiting partners and customers. “The prohibition of smoking in facilities owned and managed by the city is informed by our concern for the health and safety of both our employees and members of the public that make use of these facilities,” Msimanga said. The city has also been asked to participate in the 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health with Msimanga being the first mayor of an African capital city, to take the bold step of the conference which takes place on Wednesday at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. Present at this conference will be the Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi and the former mayor of New York City, Michael Bloomberg. Msimanga said while taking note that smoking was an addictive behaviour, the city’s policy also made provision for employee assistance for those who wished to quit the habit. “In short, the policy has the best interests of its employees and the public at heart. It has to put stringent measures in place to address non-compliance while simultaneously ensuring a proper understanding,” he said. kutullom@thenewage.co.za