FOLLOWING his win in the men’s 100m race in a time of 10.05 seconds at the Athletics Grand Prix meeting in Pretoria on Thursday, Akani Simbine will be looking to dip under 10 seconds when he runs at the South African Championships at LC de Villiers Stadium. The Tuks athlete will be competing in the 100m and the 200m at the national championships starting on Thursday. Simbine was excited with his performance on Thursday and that this bodes well ahead of the Commonwealth Games next month. “I’m excited for the SA Championships and excited what’s going to happen this week and a build up to the Commonwealth Games,” Simbine said. “I’m pretty happy with the race especially how it came out. It was all about finishing the race and getting a good 60 metres in. “I am happy right now and I’m confidence for the rest of the season.” Having used to run under 10 seconds last year, Simbine said the plan was not to run a slow time as he continues to prepare for the Commonwealth Games in Australia. “Every race I get to run is preparation for the Commonwealth Games. “I’m pretty happy where we at right now and the work we have been putting in so I’m excited for the season.” He was also excited to run alongside Clarence Munyai and that he is looking forward to compete with him at the SA champs. “Clarence is a good athlete and I have got a lot of respect for him, he is a good youngster and he is stepping into the plate. He is making sure he is putting together his race and he keeps us on top of our game.” Meanwhile, Munyai said the race was good preparation for the SA Champs and he is looking forward to coming up against Simbine and Anaso Jobodwana. “It was a good race considering that I was running with Akani more especially with the form he is in and I’m really happy how it came out,” Munyai said. “I think I will be ready for the upcoming challenge in the season. “The two races I ran, showed me where I am with my two competitors Akani and Anaso Jobodwana and what I have to do to prepare for them coming into the SA Championships.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za