The Patriotic Alliance (PA) has promised to support Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip when he faces a motion of no confidence against him next month. The motion, which is scheduled for Tuesday next week, was tabled by the EFF as a warning shot to the DA for not supporting the party’s proposal of changes to the Constitution to enable land expropriation without compensation. PA leader Gayton McKenzie confirmed his party’s support in an open letter directed at the mayor, confirmed by the party’s councilor in the metro, Marlon Daniels. This in effect means that Trollip stands a greater chance of retaining his post. Currently, the DA has 57 votes in the council and is expecting support form Cope and the ACDP, who each have a single seat, adding the PA’s five votes will ensure a victory for Trollip, while the EFF is expected to have a support from the ANC. It is not clear who the UDM will vote with as the party has had a rough relationship with the DA since the removal of Mongameli Bobani as deputy mayor. In his letter, Mckenzie said he knows how painful it has been to see the DA in charge of a city the ANC thought it would be impossible to lose. He also slams EFF leader Julius Malema for his blatant racism by wanting to remove Trollip only on the basis of his race. “Trollip didn’t become white yesterday. He was born white. Let’s not be fooled by those who were comfortable handing power to the same white Trollip and who are now screaming that he’s too white for their liking and should go. “We cannot support a motion of no confidence against a man when the only apparent basis for that motion is that the man in question happens to be white,” Mckenzie said. “We have now watched the latest developments with interest after the call for the removal of Trollip yet again – this time raised by the DA’s erstwhile protectors, the EFF. “We are, however, disappointed with the crude display of racism that has accompanied this, particularly the analogy of cutting the throats of the DA, the threats against white people and the general contemptuous rejection of ‘whiteness'”. Mckenzie said his party also previously tabled the same motion against Trollip, not on the basis of his race but the disagreements that they had with him and his administration. He said getting rid of Trollip only on the basis of his race did not sit well given the painful history of racism and many political murders. “Such an analogy can easily be misconstrued by the angriest and stupidest among us. It has no place in our body politic.” Mckenzie said he was however not surprised by the EFF’s racist utterances as the party had in the past proven it was prepared to do anything to get headlines in the media in order to appear as being revolutionary and the blunder of having handed power to the DA while professing to be a revolutionary party. He also slammed the ANC for being silent when members of the EFF were making some of the most racist and dangerous statements on race without the ANC raising its voice in disagreement, because it also wanted to take over the running of the city. -TNA Reporter