FOR most top sides, facing even a minnow team can often be a calamity waiting to happen. As things stand, the Nedbank Cup is Kaizer Chiefs’ realistic chance for earning silverware. And the ABC Motsepe League has in the past emerged as Chiefs’ Achilles heel in South Africa’s version of the FA Cup. The University of Pretoria made light work of Amakhosi in 2009, while Black Leopards and Baroka FC have also managed to eject the mighty Chiefs from the competition in recent times. The stakes are even higher this time out and defender Daniel Cardoso has admitted as much, saying their energy must be channelled towards focusing on the task at hand. Chiefs still have a chance of winning the PSL but they are eight points adrift of log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns with seven matches remaining. This means the Amakhosi must pick up maximum points in their remaining seven games while hoping Sundowns lose at least three. “We have got seven games left in the league so it is not over. “We must turn our attention to the Nedbank Cup this weekend, we want a trophy as a team and for coach Steve Komphela,” Cardoso said. “We have to keep going, we can’t drop our heads now. Hopefully we will come out top this weekend. “Our main focus will be on the Nedbank Cup, eight points is quite a big difference in the league race. But like I said, it is not over, Sundowns, have the CAF Champions League, the Nedbank Cup and the league still to challenge for. “For us to win the league, we will need Sundowns to collapse, so we need to focus on the Nedbank Cup and hopefully we will go all the way to the final.” After suffering a 3-1 defeat to rivals Orlando Pirates in the league last weekend, Chiefs will have a chance to redeem themselves when they host Stellenbosch FC at Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow in the last 16 of the cup competition. “It has been a tough week for us following the derby loss to Pirates. But it is in the past now, we are looking forward to the challenge against Stellenbosch. “They won’t be an easy team to beat, lower ranked teams always come with a good fight so it’s going to be an exciting game. “We are trying to get our mental strength back, especially the players who have not been playing. They also want to get a chance this weekend in a cup game. “The fighting spirit from them keeps us going and we can’t dwell on the past.” Chiefs are well aware that they cannot afford to take Stellenbosch lightly, having been surprised by minnows in the past in this competition. nevillek@thenewage.co.za