COLLUSION is corruption and corruption is collusion. Any person who seeks to differentiate the two wants to pacify the private sector over wrongdoing using semantics. These are the sentiments of Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla who has lambasted the government for allowing the private sector “to run amok, exploiting the poor through collusion and price fixing”. “Time is up and we are running out of patience. There is no excuse why people are not being (made) accountable for cartel behaviour. “It’s easy for the government to say fining companies 10% of their annual turnover will deter companies from colluding but it does not. The ANC government must deal decisively with this. This is a big deal. We cannot continue to allow the poor to be the most affected … there are consequences,” he said. Dennis George, general secretary of trade union Fedusa, said that he was also concerned. “We want a Competition Commission that is proactive. These crimes are premeditated and when it happens in the public sector, arrests are made. “We will demand that the Minister of Economic Development explains to us exactly what is happening.” Nearly two years after the criminalisation of cartels, South Africa is yet to witness the arrests and imprisonment of hardcore players in collusion. Competition Commmission’s Sipho Ngwema told the New Age that South Africa will soon begin to hear about the regulator taking action in conjunction with the police. He said that they had started identifying cases that will be prosecuted. In an exclusive interview with the New Age, Gomolemo Kekesi, partner at law firm Bowmans, says that the scourge of collusion is rife – with many multinational cooperations and smaller players undeterred by fines. She said collusion and corruption were two sides of the same coin. “Cartel behaviour was always deemed a red flag – one of the worst you could find and the worst penalty in years back was an administrative fine. However, there was no personal liability for the individuals themselves. “Largely due to the US, Australia and Brazil introducing jail sentences for complicit participants of cartel conduct, South Africa followed suit. “SA also formed an ambitious extension to deter collusion,” Kekesi said. The criminalisation of cartels was introduced in 2016 by Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel with the aim of putting directors and company managers in jail for colluding with other companies in price fixing, rigging and other infractions. However, competition experts say, the decision was made without providing the necessary capabilities that the Competition Commission needed in order to bring this vision to life. Companies have continued settling and paying fines for cartel behaviour and the fines are said to have had no bearing on how they act later. Ngwema disputed this, saying that the Competition Commission was not a criminal investigating unit. “We send the docket to SAPS for prosecution when the crimes are common law crimes,” he said. The amendments to the Competition Act only came into effect in 2016, therefore criminalisation only applies to cases that came after 2016. “The law cannot be applied retrospectively,” he said. Competition law expert and author advocate Cornwell Dauds says: “These companies simply walk away with a slap on the wrist.” Kekesi said colluding companies may not go back to cartel conduct – but to recoup the administrative fine, which is usually approximately 10% of their annual turnover, they increase prices, which is what happened after the bread cartel was exposed in 2013. When the decision to criminalise cartel conduct in 2016 was made, it was meant to send a message to companies on the serious nature of collusion. Patel announced that directors and managers were going to face jail time for participation in cartels when amendments to the Competition Act were introduced. The idea was to introduce personal criminal liability for cartel conduct. Dauds said that criminal liability “is not coming to life” due to a lack of capacity in South Africa to prosecute competition cases. “The Competition Commission does not have the capabilities to prosecute cartels and the NPA also does not have the capacity to prosecute competition cases.” Dauds said that Patel announced the criminalisation of cartels out of frustration over companies running amok and colluding to fix prices – but did not provide the capabilities or infrastructure needed for prosecution. He said to the New Age that the idea was, and still is, a good idea but the commission must be licensed to prosecute – or the NPA must second the commission to learn the ways of competition law in order to prosecute efficiently. “The minister should have set his ducks in a row first, then announced the criminalisation (clause). Colluding companies are simply setting aside money for administrative fines and it’s business as usual after that,” he said. NPA head of communications Luvuyo Mfaku argued to the New Age that cartel activities “do” fall under the realm of “private sector corruption” and they have an NPA specialised commercial crime unit mandated to deal with cartel cases. He insists that their units provide the “capacity” to deal with cases emanating from the Competition Commission. Dauds said: “It is not easy to expose a cartel whose activities are typically kept secret. Competition authorities worldwide have long appreciated this difficulty and have resorted to the use of what is known as the ‘corporate leniency policy’ to break the mould. “They have offered cartel members – who have been sworn to secrecy by the cartel – leniency if they came forward and said mea culpa (I’ve done wrong), and then immediately spill the beans on their co-cartel members. “The South African competition authority has followed suit in implementing this leniency policy. In fact, most of the successful prosecutions of cartel practices have been obtained through the use of the leniency policy – both here and in other jurisdictions. This policy allows ‘turncoat’ cartel members to escape the full might of the law. To any member that invokes the leniency policy, it is about self-preservation.” Kekesi said: “I don’t know if we can ever fully deter cartel conduct.” THELMA NGOMA