FOLLOWING a week of stress after a defeat to rivals Orlando Pirates, Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela was pleased with the immediate response his players showed on Saturday at Moses Mabhida Stadium. Amakhosi set aside the disappointing Soweto derby result to beat Stellenbosch FC 2-1 in the Nedbank Cup last 16 to advance to the quarterfinals of the competition. Komphela believes that they needed that victory to get their confidence back as they look to win the Nedbank Cup and finish strongly in the PSL. “I think the first thing we take is confidence that we are back again, but it is amazing because even before the defeat last week we have not been losing,” Komphela said. “But is part of being at Chiefs that we respond immediately and get into the sport and work without too much pressure.” Eric Mathoho and Leonardo Castro scored the goals for Chiefs in either side of each half and Komphela added that they go into their next match against AmaZulu on Saturday with all their confidence back. “Focus will be on AmaZulu, we are delighted with the victory against Stellenbosch. But the positives are that we can work without too much stress even though pressure will always be there. “I saw certain things that we consistently do wrong, we continued again but I will have to show them that we are doing it again, can we rectify that, so positives we take along with negatives we try to rectify.” For the first time, Komphela started with Castro and Bernard Parker up front and was pleased with their combination play. “I think it worked well. If you look at the second goal it came from Parker. Parker touched the ball and it went to Castro. “As a coach you can even put Parker into No 10 and I thought they coped well and they combined as well. “You could build from that, there were certain positives that we will go back and look and say this is interesting. I thought it worked well. “We are relaxed, taking it one step at the time, we’ve gone through this one let players celebrate and our supporters and wait for a draw on Thursday and take it from there.” Chiefs joined Free State Stars, Baroka FC and Ubuntu Cape Town in the last eight with other fixtures to come this week. Mamelodi Sundowns will meet EC Bees tomorrow, while Cape Town City will host Orlando Pirates on Wednesday. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za