Investigative journalist and author of the controversial book The President’s Keepers Jacques Pauw on Thursday said he didn’t expect a raid, undertaken by the Hawks on his premises on Wednesday, to happen under President Cyril Ramaphosa’s administration. This comes after a raid by the Hawks on Wednesday following his book about former President Jacob Zuma that was released last year. The authorities believe the journalist could be in possession of secret intelligence documents. “I don’t expect Ramaphosa to keep himself busy with affairs like this, I think he’s got much more important things to do. I expected the raid to happen sooner, after my book was published last year and I expected the raid to happen then, I didn’t expect the raid to happen four months down the line,” Pauw said. He said that when the authorities came for the raid, he asked them if they believed they were going to find any State Security Agency documents lying around, because “it would have been idiotic of me to do so.” Pauw’s book revealed details relating to Zuma’s tax affairs that were alleged to be outstanding. He also alleged that Zuma was paid a R1 million month salary following his presidency, by a controversial businessman. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said they raided the house because of complaints that had been raised against Pauw’s book. “We did what we had to do and we left. There was no malice intended against Jacques Pauw,” Mulaudzi said. Mulaudzi dismissed allegations that actions being taken against Pauw were politically motivated. “These things, they happen anytime, anywhere and I think this is the thing – that people would always want to connect us to political issues. We are not political here. The decision was made, it’s a decision that is led by the NPA. We only do what we are supposed to do and that is to investigate, that’s all.” He said that this was a plan on the advice of prosecutors. The Hawks will also be taking statements from the publishers of the book. -TNA Reporter