AS THE country marked Human Rights Day yesterday, the plight of sex workers has been put under the spotlight by a survey called The Policing of Sex Work In South Africa, compiled by NGOs Sonke Gender Justice and the Sex Worker Education and Advocacy Taskforce (Sweat). The survey found that sex workers in South Africa will be arrested at least four times and will spend an average of 40 hours in custody if they are charged. Nosipho Vidima‚ a lobbying officer at Sweat, said while all who were involved in sex work were having it bad, transgender people were worse off. “They are more harmed because when they arrest them, they do not know whether to be placed with males and females. “Sometimes cells are full and they are placed with the wrong gender. That is the first violation,” she said. It is estimated that there are between 132000 and 182000 female‚ male and transgender sex workers in the country. The report recorded the experiences of 117 sex workers from Gauteng and Mpumalanga. It was done in response to the large number of human rights violations involving sex workers and police reported to civil society organisations. Sex workers who took part in the study were aged between 21 and 65 years old. The report showed how sex workers’ vulnerability to STIs and HIV is also increased when police confiscate condoms and use them as “evidence” to arrest sex workers. “To ensure the safety and protection of sex workers in line with respecting their human rights, this report recommends that South Africa should decriminalise sex work,” the report said. “This includes repealing laws that prohibit consenting adults to buy or sell sex, as well as laws that otherwise prohibit commercial sex such as laws against ‘living off the earnings’ of prostitution or brothel-keeping. This includes ensuring the civil and administrative offences such as loitering and “public nuisance are not used to penalise sex workers.” Vadima said the decriminalisation of sex work could help solve the problems related to the abuse of sex workers. “The main reason why there is abuse is because it is illegal. Police end up doing things that are not allowed. Decriminalisation would also help save the state a lot of resources; sex workers would not have to be arrested and prosecuted,” she said. Vadima said there needed to be a strategy that would result in positive policing partnerships. As part of the strategy there would be a more positive approach as opposed to an adversarial one. -LILLIAN SELAPISA|lillians@thenewage.co.za