LOBBY group and activist organisation Black Caucus has cried foul over Parliament’s failure to hold the Gupta brothers, former president Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane the past chairperson of the SAA Board Dudu Myeni and Steinhoff’s former, CEO Markus Jooste, to account. Jooste has declined to attend a joint meeting of the standing committee on finance, the standing committee on public accounts and the portfolio committee on trade and industry, in Parliament today. The group has threatened to protest at the inquiry saying Parliament is protecting the theft by white monopoly capital. In a statement yesterday Black Caucus said: “There is no doubt that parliament is afraid to deal with Jooste on proven allegations because he has money but they want Zuma (Duduzane), Myeni and the Guptas to account on allegations without proof. It’s amazing that to this day, Parliament is still protecting white interests.” The three committees said in response that they would, in consultation with Parliament’s Legal Service Unit, decide today whether to subpoena Jooste and would inform the speaker’s office of their decision. Jooste’s lawyers De Klerk and Van Gend said in a letter to the finance standing committee chairperson Yunus Carrim that Jooste, after careful consideration, felt that because he had resigned as CEO with effect from December 6 last year, he was not in a position to assist
the committees. In addition, Jooste believed the Financial Services Board was investigating the Steinhoff matter and had summonsed him. Another reason was that criminal charges were laid against him and that the Hawks were investigating. “All indications are that our client will probably be prosecuted with regard to the Steinhoff matter. Appearing before the committees to be questioned on Steinhoff will, in these circumstances, undermine our client’s right to a fair trial guaranteed in section 35 (3) of the Constitution,” his lawyers said. Today’s meeting is due to end at 6pm and will include presentations by the Hawks and Financial Services Board. DA member of Parliament Natasha Mazzone said in a statement the group was scheduled to testify before the committee on April 11. The Guptas are apparently abroad and have not indicated their whereabouts to the inquiry, while Myeni, Mazzone said, has refused to disclose her residential address. “Should they fail to show up, the committee will push for warrants of arrest to be issued.” The public enterprises portfolio committee, which is conducting the inquiry, said in a statement yesterday it was deeply concerned by threats made telephonically at the weekend against the chairperson of the probe, Zukiswa Rantho. “The committee agreed that the matter must be reported to law enforcement agencies so a security threat analysis can be done and proper action can be taken. The committee also believes the matter should be reported to the speaker of Parliament,” the portfolio committee said. In a closed meeting, the committee resolved to accept affidavits from the individuals who have indicated their interest in making submissions to the inquiry. A final date of April 13 was set as the deadline for submitting affidavits. The committee is planning to finalise its first report in May. The final draft will be tabled in Parliament in mid-June. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN