FIVE unions including the Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) are set to square off with the Gauteng health department over nonpayment of bonuses. The unions are planning a major shutdown of health services in the province on Friday. This comes after a stalemate between the Gauteng department of health and the unions which include Nehawu, PSA, Hospersa and Nupsaw over the payment of bonuses dating the 2016-17 financial year. This is not the first time that the unions have clashed, with the cashstrapped department over the payment of bonuses, a dispute which goes back to the tenure of former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu. On Monday, the unions staged a sitin at the Gauteng health offices in the Johannesburg CBD, demanding the payment of performance bonuses for the 2016 and 2017 financial years which have not been paid. The unions say the days of pleading poverty by the health department will not work this time around. The unions met with Gauteng health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa yesterday following a tense sit-in at the department’s offices. Denosa Gauteng provincial chairperson Simphiwe Gada said the meeting with Ramokgopa yesterday proved fruitless. “They have not changed their position in terms of saying that they have no money to pay for bonuses for the previous financial year. “They say that they will have to approach the executive council of the Gauteng government to ask for more money,” he said. This as the cash-strapped department battles to meet its commitments, largely due to medico legal claims relating to the deaths of mental patients following their relocation from the Life Esidimeni Hospital to non-governmental facilities. Gada says this is unacceptable and that they now plan a complete shutdown. “We have placed on record that we will embark on a complete shut-down by withdrawing our labour,” he said. Gada says they plan to march to Ramokgopa’s office and to Gauteng Premier David Makhura’s office. Spokesperson for Gauteng health MEC Khutso Rabothata said: “The MEC has asked to meet with the executive council of Gauteng on the matter. She will then give the unions feedback on her meeting with the executive council on the matter.” Gada said the unions would consult with their members before releasing a statement on a way forward today. It is still unclear how the shutting down of health services will affect Gauteng residents or which services will be affected. leratod@thenewage.co.za