After the news broke yesterday that the ANC had sent a “special” delegation to meet Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille in a bid to draw her into the party, the ANC’s national spokesperson was unavailable for comment. Speculation has been rife that De Lille would be joining the ANC after continued tension with her party, the DA, in recent days. In Cape Town the DA’s disciplinary hearing against De Lille collapsed before it even started – with one of the three panellists appointed by the party to hear the matter, Pogiso Monchusi, recusing himself. As there was not a full panel, De Lille’s demand that the disciplinary hearing be open to the public and the media could not be entertained yesterday. Similarly, a request by Media24 for the press to be allowed to report on the matter couldn’t occur either. De Lille had objected to Monchusi’s participation because “he is not a fit and proper person”. However, Sheila Camerer, a second panellist to whom De Lille had also objected as she considered her a “political opponent”, has not recused herself. Yesterday, De Lille did not rule out going to court if Camerer did not recuse herself from the procedures. “I’m the accused here and I want to make sure I have a fair process,” De Lille said. Of the morning’s actions, she said: “We have been arguing and I went on record to ask for the recusal of two of the panel members. We continued to put it on record again this morning. “So one of the panel members had then decided to recuse himself,” De Lille told the media yesterday. “There is a full panel to continue with the hearing. The DA needs to find a replacement for him and then we need to start the whole thing over. Really it is a waste of time. It’s costly for me because I have to pay lawyers.” She said the hearing could not get to debate her request to open the hearing to the public and media. “We just feel like going straight to court. It’s really very frustrating.” The disciplinary hearing was scheduled to start on Tuesday and end this week. But it is unclear at this stage when it will start, with a new panel presiding. The DA said in a statement that advocate Monchusi’s withdrawal should in no way be construed as an admission of any wrongdoing. “He made it clear that he was withdrawing solely to avoid any potential risk to the proceedings, subsequent to arguments being presented by De Lille’s legal representative with regard to a recusal application. “Monchusi chose to withdraw even before any argument was presented by the party, in what was clearly a decision to not unnecessarily risk a delay in proceedings at a future date,” DA federal executive head James Selfe said. Selfe also defended Camerer as being both a properly and legally qualified practising attorney with many years of experience. “Any suggestion that this is not the case is factually incorrect. A further argument in this regard is still to be presented by the party.” He said the hearing was adjourned in order for a new panel member to be appointed and will proceed at the earliest possible date available to all parties concerned. news@thenewage.co.za