THE government needs to find a way to plead with the world to afford it space to deal with matters such as land expropriation without compensation, which were of national interest for South Africa, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, at a post-Cabinet meeting
briefing in Parliament yesterday. She made this remark in response to a statement that Australia wants to accommodate white South Africans farmers who want to leave the country. Mokonyane also admitted that there were extremists on both sides of the land debate. “There are extremists who just want to invade land and pick and choose and occupy somebody’s stuff. There will be those who are saying you will not tamper with what I have had and demonstrating supremacy.” She said a lot of work has been done on the land issue. “What Cabinet states is we are satisfied that a lot of work has been done within the confines of the law and the existing rules of the game as enshrined in the Constitution.” However there might be a need to amend the Constitution because the expropriation and ownership of land go beyond just issues of agriculture. “But is also deals with issues of urban land, property ownership and water usage rights for those who have access to land including access to markets and financial support.” Therefore there would be consultations because there was a need to do something for the good of the country. “Where there is a possibility of working within the confines of the Constitution let us also do exactly that.” On the racial polarisation evinced by the land issue, Mokonyane said all South Africans would understand that the racial divide in the country was deep. The remnants of this divide continued to show themselves not only on the issue of land but in simple things around access to schools, housing development and many other things that happened in society. “But where we are as a nation we’ve made a commitment through our Constitution of building a non-racial society, of promoting equality. We know that when you have to deal with the real structures of a divided nation it would actually create discomfort.” Mokonyane pledged that the Government would never do anything to undermine a very strategic sector of the economy the agricultural sector. “But we also believe this is an opportunity where those who tilt the land will also have some sense of ownership because it will then increase more responsibly and even productivity.” Mokonyane also said that the South African Social Security Agency would make a submission to the Constitutional Court today for a sanction that would allow Cash Paymaster Services’ contract to be extended so that about 780000 people who receive their social grants in cash payments would continue to do so when the service provider’s contract ends on March 31. news@thenewage.co.za