JUSTICE Dikgang Moseneke, acclaimed authors, Dr Sindiwe Magona and Prof Peter Mtuze are among six exceptional individuals to be conferred with honorary doctorates by Rhodes University. At its 114th graduation scheduled for April 5-7, Rhodes University will award six eminent South Africans with the highest honour in recognition for their contribution in various fields including culture, education, economic policy, social upliftment, health and jurisprudence. The six honorary doctorates recipients include Dr Sindiwe Magona, Prof Peter Mtuze, Dr Andrew Mlangeni, Prof Vishnu Padayachee, Yvonne Chaka Chaka and judge Dikgang Moseneke. Dr Sindiwe Magona is a worldrenowned author, poet, playwright, storyteller, activist, language ambassador and inspirational speaker who worked her way up from being a domestic worker. She will be conferred with a doctor of letters doctorate. To be conferred with a doctor of letters degree, Prof Mtuze who will also be awarded is a leading scholar in the field of African languages and was the first black professor at Rhodes University. He has published more than 30 works and translated Nelson Mandela’s Long Walk to Freedom into Xhosa. Popularly known as prisoner number 46 764 in political circles, Dr Andrew Mlangeni will be conferred with a doctor of law degree. Dr Mlangeni spent years of unswerving and sustained commitment to the fight against apartheid, with 26 of these years spent on Robben Island prison as Nelson Mandela’s neighbour. Prof Vishnu Padayachee, who will receive a doctor of economics degree, is a distinguished professor of the school of economics and business sciences at the University of the Witwatersrand. Yvonne Chaka Chaka was chosen by Nelson Mandela as the first ambassador for his Children’s Fund and ambassador for the 46664 campaign to raise global awareness about HIV-Aids. She will receive a doctor of law degree. Former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke will receive a doctor of law degree. Moseneke has made an exceptional contribution in the development of the jurisprudence of South Africa. In particular, the groundbreaking and progressive judgments he has penned relating to affirmative action, property law in respect of land rights and expropriation and the constitutionality of Parliamentary Rules. “It is a privilege for us as the Rhodes University community to honour such outstanding citizens for their many and significant contributions. We warmly congratulate them for their notable achievements,” Dr Sizwe Mabizela, vice-chancellor of Rhodes University, said. – Rhodes Communications E