Former President Jacob Zuma’s supporters will hold a night vigil prior to his appearance in court on fraud, corruption and money laundering charges. Zuma will on Friday appear in the Durban High Court to face 16 charges after they were reinstated by National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Shaun Abrahams last month. Religious groupings, National Interfaith of South Africa (NICSA), the Commission for Religious Affairs (CRA) and civil society groups, Black First Land First (BLF), the National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (NafupaSA), the Delangokubona Business Forum, the Asidle Sonke Business Forum and the National Unemployed People’s Trust, will hold a night vigil at Albert Park, not far from the High Court. The religious groupings’ spokesperson Bishop Bheki Ngcobo said they had a comprehensive plan on how they would be showing their support to Zuma when he appeared in court, as they believe he is being persecuted. Ngcobo said they would march from King Dinuzulu Park to the Durban High Court, where they will hold what he called “mother-of-all prayers” outside the court on Friday morning, prior to Zuma’s appearance. “We recall that during former President Zuma’s initial appearances years ago, he had been investigated for nine years, during which he proclaimed his innocence. He never missed a day in court since he was first charged in 2005, until this case was thrown out of court. It is a matter of concern that for all these years Zuma has been subjected to what appears to be a well-calculated campaign to isolate him,” Ngcobo said. He said they received information that there were elements that had already been mobilised to join the activities to cause chaos, which would create a wrong perception in the eyes of the public that Zuma’s supporters were anarchists. “It is for these reasons that we are working with law enforcement agencies to ensure that these activities are peaceful.” Ngcobo said, as religious groups they were left with more questions than answers on why Zuma was being persecuted. “We have many unanswered questions. Could it be that Zuma is targeted because he has always been on the side of the poor? Could it be that Zuma is targeted because he preferred free education for the poor? Why is that many people suspect that former President Zuma is being targeted because he fought for access to land?” Bishop Ngcobo said they also believe that the former president was being targeted for leading South Africa into joining the BRICS group of countries. “As NICSA and CRA we strongly believe that the rights of the accused must be fully observed. At the same time we want to reiterate the principle of presumption of innocence until proven otherwise, as that is a fundamental right which underpins the Constitution of the country and the functioning of our judicial system.” -TNA Reporter