NOMZAMO Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who died yesterday, was a woman of substance, despised by the apartheid regime, but revered by millions as a heroine, a giant of the struggle, a flawed icon who was uncompromising in championing the cause of the downtrodden and whose life was marked by selflessness and sacrifice. Feisty and fiery Winnie’s charisma captured the world’s attention. Former president Nelson Mandela fell head over heels in love with the young Winnie who’s beauty was matched by an innate intelligence and commitment to the freedom of her people. She became the country’s first black social worker at Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto in 1955. Born on September 26, 1936 in Bizana, Eastern Cape, Winnie, was the fifth of nine children. Her parents had wanted a boy, but she became a tomboy and practised stick fighting with the boys in her peer group and setting traps for animals. “Once, while quarrelling with her younger sister, Princess, Winnie fashioned a knuckle duster out of a nail and a baking powder tin and accidentally struck her sister across the face while aiming for her arm. It was one of many instances for which her mother administered a hefty beating, according to SA History online. Her elder sister, Vuyelwa, died of TB when Winnie was still young and her mother who had given birth to a boy also died of TB, leaving her young daughter to take care of the infant. In 1953, Winnie enrolled at the Jan Hofmeyr School of Social Work in Johannesburg, where Nelson Mandela was the patron. “It was in Johannesburg that she saw the full effects of apartheid on a daily basis, but also where she discovered her love of fashion, dancing and the city,” SA History online writes. After she completed her degree, finishing at the top of her class, she was offered a scholarship for further study in the US but decided to remain at home to pursue her dream of becoming a social worker. It was at the hostel in Bara that she shared a dormitory with Adelaide Tsukudu, the future wife of ANC president Oliver Tambo. “During her time at Baragwanath, Winnie’s reputation began to grow, with stories and photographs about her appearing in newspapers, acknowledging the achievement of this girl from Pondoland who came to Johannesburg and looked to be making a name for herself. Winnie was just 22 when she met Nelson, who was 16 years her senior. He was already a famous anti-apartheid figure and one of the key defendants in the Treason Trial, which had commenced the year before, in 1956. Despite government restrictions, Winnie and Nelson got married on June 14, 1958. “Winnie quickly discovered that life married to one of apartheid’s most ardent opponents was a lonely one. Her husband was incessantly busy with ANC meetings, legal cases and the Treason Trial. The Mandela residence was also a site for frequent police raids, during which police would awaken the household with loud banging on the doors in the early morning and set to turning the whole house upside down.” In October 1958, while Winnie and others were mobilising women to protest against the infamous pass laws, the police arrested 1000 women who decided not to apply for immediate bail, but to rather spend two weeks in prison as a sign of further protests. Winnie gave birth to their first child, Zenani, on February 4, 1959. Their second child, Zindzi, was born on December 23, 1960 but the joy of her birth was overshadowed by Nelson having to go underground on instructions from the ANC. On August 5, 1961, the police apprehended Nelson who was later sentenced to life for his political work. Winnie’s inner circle soon became infiltrated by people who would gain her trust as allies, only to reveal themselves later as spies. She was slapped with a banning order on December 28, 1962, which restricted her movements to the magisterial district of Johannesburg; prohibited her from entering any educational premises and barred her from attending or addressing any meetings or gatherings where more than two people were present. Winnie struggled to bring up her children without a husband and under constant harassment from the apartheid police who carried out regular aggressive raids on her house. “Winnie found herself at the mercy of unpredictable and chaotic forces, which she was ill-equipped to navigate,” according to SA History online. Even Zenani and Zindziswa were not spared and apartheid agents prevented them from being enrolled at schools. They were eventually sent away to study in Swaziland. Winnie herself said about the security police raids: “It means tasting your sugar, your mealie meal and every spice on your kitchen shelf. Unpacking all your clothing and going through each pocket. “Ultimately it means your seizure at dawn, dragged away from little children screaming and clinging to your skirt, imploring the white man dragging Mummy away to leave her alone.” But worse was to come with ever stricter banning orders and jail terms being imposed on Winnie. She was hounded out of job after job by the police. In May 12, 1969 Winnie was torn away from her daughters who were on holiday by the security police and kept in solitary confinement for 17 months. During interrogation, she was kept awake for five days and five nights without respite to break her will. Winnie’s mettle was evident when the apartheid government sent her into exile to the secluded Free State town of Brandfort for nine years, her house was bombed twice and the harassment continued but instead of buckling to the pressure she became a beacon of hope to the local community where she set up clinics and empowered the local impoverished community to improve their lives. The brutality of apartheid radicalised Winnie and in 1986 she told a huge crowd near Krugersdorp, to liberate South Africa with tyres and matches which was widely interpreted as her endorsement of necklacing (of suspected apartheid spies with burning tyres). Perhaps the biggest blot on Winnie’s luminous legacy was the death of the teenager Stompie Seipei in 1988, the activist who fell foul of the Mandela United Football Club which she had formed in 1991. Winnie was convicted of kidnapping and being an accessory to assault after Seipei’s death. According to SA History online: “At the TRC hearing, the extent of clarity surrounding his death amounted to the following: that he went missing from his home, was beaten and ultimately murdered with a pair of gardening shears.” After years of loneliness and heartache, when Winnie and Nelson walked hand in hand out of the gates of Victor Verster prison, to a rapturous welcome by a waiting crowd, it seemed that the fairy tale had at last come true. Alas, the years of separation had left a chasm that could not be bridged and they divorced in 1996. After apartheid Winnie continued to serve in the democratic government but in recent years her health begun deteriorating until yesterday when she passed away peacefully at Johannesburg’s Milpark Hospital, leaving a bereft nation pondering the fate of a woman who gave so much of her life for the freedom of her people. Hamba Kahle Mama Winnie. -FAWZIA MOODLEY|fawziam@thenewage.co.za