A FEMALE teacher, 42, was gunned down inside the primary schoolyard by her ex-spouse who then turned the gun on himself in front of shocked pupils and staffers yesterday morning. The horror happened at the Middelpos Primary School in Saldanah. The Western Cape department of education yesterday expressed shock and sadness following the fatal shooting of the teacher who has not yet been identified. They both died on the scene. Pupils who witnessed the tragedy were greatly and understandably traumatised as were the dead teacher’s two children, who were also in the vicinity. The department of education officials including the Safe Schools officials were immediately dispatched to the school after the shooting. The motive for the killing was not known and the police are investigating. The school management dismissed pupils early after the incident and a school psychologist and social worker were dispatched to provide counselling for those who were in need of assistance or who witnessed the incident. Teachers from Middelpos Primary and the neighbouring school, Diazville Primary School, were also severely traumatised by the incident and counselling and support will be provided. Western Cape education MEC Debbie Schäfer said: “I wish to express my shock and sadness at the fatal shooting of a teacher from Middelpos Primary in Saldanha Bay. “The SAPS was reportedly on the scene and the school and officials will cooperate with the SAPS as required. I am deeply disturbed by the unspeakably tragic incident. “My heartfelt condolences go to the teacher’s family, friends and the school community.” The police confirmed that the shooting incident occurred yesterday morning. The police said they received a complaint of a shooting incident at a primary school in Saldanha. Spokesperson Capt FC Van Wyk said: “On arrival at the scene, the body of a female was found in the parking area at the school. In Middelpos Drive near the school, the body of a male was found with a wound to the head. “Circumstances surrounding this shooting incident is under investigation. A case of murder and an inquest was registered for investigation.” Anyone with any information about the fatal shooting incident is requested to contact the investigating officer DetWO Johan Rossouw on 071 884 4414 or Crime Stop on 0860010111. provinces@thenewage.co.za -TATENDA CHIRISERI 