WITHIN an hour of the opening of the 2019 online application officially yesterday more than 50000 pupils were registered. The online application system is only open for Grade 1 and Grade 8 pupils and applicants have until midnight May 28. MEC Panyaza Lesufi launched the system in Atteridgeville at 8am yesterday and assisted parents with the applications process. He said the department remained resolute that online application was the way to go. “Using the online system has made the applications process transparent and fair thus eliminating manipulation and human indiscretions. Parents can check the status of the application by logging on to the system. This means that the department has a statistical view of data of all applications made.” The department’s spokesperson, Steve Mabona said, there would be 65 admission centres across the 15 education districts. Parents were only allowed to apply for a maximum of five schools per pupil using home, work, sibling or previous school options. “A parent applying for Grade 8 can also indicate the current school that the child is attending. “This will identify high schools closest to the current primary school that the pupil is attending. An application using home address, work address or sibling at the school will be placed on priority list A or WA. “The rationale for this is to prioritise applications of pupils living closer to the school. However, using the school of choice option, the applicant will be placed on waiting list B or WB. This means the applicant lives or works outside of the feeder zone,” Mabona said. Mabona said once an application was successful parents were required to submit documents within seven days to each of the schools they applied for and ensure that they sign the register. Last year, more than 321000 pupils applied for placement at Gauteng schools and the department has urged parents to apply on time as demand for placement was high and depended on available spaces at a school. Parents applying for pupils with special needs were advised to visit the nearest district office to apply. The department said the placement of pupils would start on July 18 and close on October 21. Mabona said it was important for parents to confirm or decline placement offers within seven days of receiving the offer as failure to confirm or decline the offer would result in it being withdrawn. Gauteng and the Western Cape are the only two provinces that conduct online applications. shonisanit@thenewage.co.za