Jazz singer Brenda Mtambo stole the show when she performed Thina Sizwe at the official Winnie Madikizela Mandela memorial service held at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto yesterday. The singer gave an emotionally charged musical tribute with her deep moving voice giving mourners among them minister of home affairs, Malusi Gigaba and Gauteng Premier David Makhura who not only joined in on the singing from the stands but stood up and rejoiced Mtambo’s moving tribute. Even fellow singer Nomfundo Xaluva who was also booked to perform could not help but be moved by her fellow sister in song. “On the bright side: My friend, my sister BrendaMtambo, you were absolutely stunning. So appropriate. You looked regal. Would have been so beautiful to sing together but you held it down! You’re a Queen. Love you to the moon and back ,” Xaluva posted on Twitter. The service which was dominated by political chants, church hymns, music and poetry also poet Mzwakhe Mbuli celebrate Madikizela Mandela through poetry, while other performances from Nomfudo Xaluva, Soweto Gospel Choir.
Scores of mourners spotting colourful head-wraps, doeks and traditional regalia made a turn at the official memorial service for the fearless freedom fighter before her state funded funeral on Saturday.She was described as an inspiring, fashion icon by her grandchildren who spoke fondly of their grand mother. “Big mommy was the kindest, smartest, happiest most inspiring, fashionable person I knew. Big mommy I will always love you and miss you, whether you are in heaven or earth. Without you our lives would be incomplete.
Roads leading to the stadium were closed off since from the early hours of the morning ahead of the service which lasted until early evening.The 81-year-old struggle stalwart died last Monday after a long illness for which she had been in and out of hospital since the start of the year will be buried on Saturday at Fourways Memorial Park Cemetery with yet another funeral service set for Orlando Stadium. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za -SIYABONGA SITHOLE