THERE was a point in the season when Bidvest Wits were looking relegation straight in the eye – a highly embarrassing situation for the side that won the PSL title last season. But now, after long periods of stress and uncertainty, the Clever Boys are now certain of a place in the league next season and even better yet, are looking promising for a place in the top eight. The business that Wits did in the January transfer window proved to be a masterstroke for Gavin Hunt’s squad, taking on Lehlohonolo Majoro, Thobani Mngcwango and Cole Alexander. So worthwhile has been the acquisition of Majoro that he was named PSL player of the month in February by leading Wits’ resurgence and also working hard to hand Hunt his first coach of the month award for the season. While the top eight finish may not be guaranteed as yet, the Students are looking good with only six matches left, a big improvement from their bottom spot back in December. Now, only their next fixture in the league, where they will entertain struggling and relegation-facing Ajax Cape Town, looks like an easy one, with away games against Mamelodi Sundowns, Polokwane City and Orlando Pirates not as easy to predict. The fixtures against Sundowns and Pirates will be difficult as both teams are fighting for the championship title. And as Hunt has said, his team might have a big say in terms of where the title may end up. But his immediate focus is on leading his team to a comfortable finish, even though his strikers’ poor finishing remains a headache. “Have you seen our goal-scoring record this year? It’s not good, so we have to score from set pieces, because how else are we going to score? “Our season’s been going like that all year. Alexander should have scored to make it 2-0, James Keene should have made it 3-0,” Hunt said after the win against Maritzburg United. “Maritzburg never had a chance at goal the whole game and then they scored from one chance and you think, ‘Here we go again’. But we battled on and I thought we got our just reward,” the coach said. • The Clever Boys now have to shift their focus to the CAF Confederation Cup when they play Nigerian side Enyimba on Friday at 8pm in Johannesburg. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za