INTERNATIONALLY acclaimed South African actress, Terry Pheto, described the late struggle hero Winnie Madikizela Mandela’s death as heart wrenching and still unreal to her. Pheto, who is widely known for playing strong women on screen, opened up to The New Age. The Oscar-winning actress portrayed Madikizela-Mandela on BET’s Madiba series, which landed her a nomination for the Outstanding actress at the Black Reel Awards in
the UK. The Evaton-born actress said nothing could have prepared her for the news
as she had been with the icon a few days before her death at the Methodist church in Soweto. “On the day I had been off social media, I received a call from a friend telling me about Madikizela-Mandela’s death,” Pheto said. “My heart dropped. It felt as though it had been ripped apart because I saw her a few days prior her death in church.” The star said she was honoured to have been offered the opportunity to play the struggle icon, adding that Madikizela-Mandela was a courageous woman. “Preparing to play Madikizela-Mandela was a spiritual journey for me. I had to channel all that strength she possessed even after suffering at the hands of the apartheid government. “It is important that we uphold and maintain her legacy. We must be unapologetic when we celebrate her, no doubt cast on her name must shake us. She truly was a phenomenal leader, most of all, a strong woman and that is the legacy we ought preserve,” she
said. The Tsotsi star is the only South African actress to ever portray MadikizelaMandela and believes that each of the American actresses who played her had something different to offer to the role. “We all have specific connections to her, for me, she represents resilience and a mother who was prepared to die and fight injustice to black people,” she said. Remarking on Madikizela-Mandela’s beauty and sense of style, Pheto said she was amazed about her timeless beauty even in her old age. “One thing we can not deny is her beauty, it was timeless, whether you look at her 23-year-old pictures or 70-year-old pictures, she was gorgeous and her style was incredible,” Pheto said. nontokozog@thenewage.co.za