THE Abathembu royal family has expressed a desire to see struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela buried in Qunu in the Eastern Cape, the ancestral home of former president Nelson Mandela . The kingdom’s spokesperson, prince Siganeko Dalindyebo, said Mama Winnie should be brought back home where she could rest in eternal peace – in keeping with Abathembu tradition. This latest development emerged soon after President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the struggle hero would receive a special official state funeral on April 14 at Orlando Stadium. However, a decision regarding where Mama Winnie would be buried has not yet been made, his spokesperson Khusela Diko said. “The matter is still being discussed with the family,” she told The New Age. Madikizela-Mandela was married to Mandela who was a member of the Abathembu clan for 38 years until their divorce in 1996. “According to our traditions, she never even took a teaspoon to be dealt with as a divorcée. This home is supposed to play a leading role in the preparations and in the mourning of one of our own, particularly one of the stature of Mama Winnie MadikizelaMandela.” King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality spokesperson Sonwabo Mampoza said the municipality was advised that Madikizela-Mandela would be laid to rest in Qunu as she was born, bred and married in the Eastern Cape. He did not say who had given the directive. “She will be buried here next to Tata Nelson Mandela. Mama Winnie became our bride here in Mthatha and we have been advised that she will be buried here,” Mampoza said. But United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa said the royal family should not have publicised their wish if they were serious about Madikizela-Mandela’s burial plans. “They should have discussed this with the family and Winnie’s children. For now, no one will listen to them speaking to the media,” Holomisa said. The Eastern Cape premier’s spokesperson, Sonwabo Mbananga, said the province was waiting for direction. “The Eastern Cape government will wait to hear from the families and the royal house where they agree to bury Mama Winnie. We will then carry out what has been agreed upon,” he said. Themba Matanzima, speaking on behalf of the family of MadikizelaMandela, added to the confusion yesterday when he said that Madikizela-Mandela would be buried in Fourways, north of Johannesburg. He was speaking outside MadikizelaMandela’s home in Soweto yesterday. Meanwhile, memorial services are being planned in honour of Madikizela-Mandela around the country including at Mbongweni, Bizana, where the struggle icon was born on September 26, 1936. “There will be many other memorial functions across the country‚ in almost every province. “We would like to express our gratitude and our thanks to many across the country and the world who are wishing us well‚ who are wishing her movement well,” Ramaphosa said. Madikizela-Mandela died at the age of 81 on Monday following a long illness. She was admitted to the Netcare Milpark Hospital‚ Johannesburg‚ where she died. -INDIE BOYCE|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za