THE ANC in Free State still has to hear from its national executive committee (NEC) on when it can hold its provincial conference to elect a new leadership. The province is run by a provincial task team that was announced earlier this year and entrusted with organising an elective conference. A conference that was billed for March 17 was called off a few days before it could take place because the same membership challenges that were raised when the December conference were nullified were raised again. Speaking exclusively to The New Age yesterday, the provincial task team coordinator, William Bulwane, said there was a slight delay in the implementation of the roadmap that necessitated the revision of the provincial conference date. He said the NEC decided to postpone the provincial conference, citing readiness of the province. “We are still waiting to hear from them when exactly the conference should be held,” Bulwane said. He said the NEC had informed the province that it should go to Luthuli House to present its readiness to hold the conference. “The NEC has instructed us to come and present our readiness of hosting the provincial conference but we have told them that we are ready to hold the conference any time. “In fact, we have been ready since March, when we were initially set to have the conference in Thaba Nchu but it was postponed indefinitely,” he said. The Free State leadership structure that was elected at a conference in Parys in December was nullified by the Free State High Court which found that there were branches that were irregularly excluded from the conference. The court found that 14 branch general meetings that were supposed to take place were not held and as a consequence, several branch delegates from the province did not participate in the ANC national conference last December. Bulwane said they had expected to receive feedback from the NEC this week, but due to the death of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, the process had to be put on ice. “We are, however, confident that the NEC will let us know very soon when the much-anticipated conference is going to take place,” he said. He said he was not aware about talks of a conference taking place next year. “What I know for a fact is that the decision will be made by the NEC,” he
said. Bulwane also took time to send a message of condolences to MadikizelaMandela’s
family. He said the nation had lost a leader who was willing to go the extra mile for the betterment of the country. “We all lost an incredible leader who was a straight talker and brave to face issues head-on. May her soul rest in peace and we will miss her,” he said. michaelt@thenewage.co.za