SINKHOLES have cost the Gauteng province R2.7bn, including ones that are yet to be fixed. Yesterday, Gauteng Premier David Makhura said the sinkhole on the R55 Vin Centurion would cost R40m to R50m to close. This as Centurion and Pretoria Westbased motorists are forced to use alternative routes this morning as the road has been partly closed after a portion of it caved in during heavy rains late last week. So far, the Gauteng department of roads and transport has set aside R2bn to fix old stormwater that contributes to creating sinkholes. Already R45m has been used to fix Jean Avenue, R50m has been set aside for the R55, R8m for Valhalla, R30m for Itireleng informal settlement and R8m for sinkholes around Centurion. A further R100000 was spent to pay off a lawsuit related to the Jean Avenue sinkhole. The sinkhole, which affected the R55 provincial road and two households belonging to the Essop and Esmail families is presently condoned off and is expected to collapse completely before engineers and experts can fix it. It is estimated that this could take two weeks. “On Saturday night while we were watching television, it was raining, we heard a loud noise. After the rain subsided we noticed that there was a huge sinkhole. We are appealing for a longer structure to close the affected site because community members stop to take selfies, one man slipped and almost fell inside the hole,” Areesa Cassim, the attorney for the Esmail family said. The families said they were worried that criminals would easily gain access to their properties. Makhura and Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga has confirmed that the Tshwane metro police department officers would monitor the area on a 24-hour basis. “When there is a problem like this, we as the government have to respond regardless of whether it was budgeted for or not. This R55 is a busy road, if it was to be closed, it would cause a huge problem for the community. Fortunately the other side of the road was not affected. The mayor and I are satisfied that there is going to be a 24-hour monitoring service here so that there is no situation where people are injured because the cracks have suddenly gone to the other side and there was no warning,” Makhura said. He said 25% of the land in Gauteng is dolomitic, meaning that it is sensitive land, sometimes geologically unstable and things could happen, including sinkholes. Makhura said parts of the 25% stretch from the West Rand, which is hardest hit, from Mogale City to Western Area right up to Carltonville. In Tshwane, Centurion is terribly affected by dolomite, it stretches to the eastern parts including Tembisa, Thokoza, Katlehong and Vosloorus. In Johannesburg, parts of the CBD but mainly the south of Johannesburg from Lenasia, Tembelihle, the southern parts of Johannesburg is dolomitic land. “Sinkholes in Gauteng in the past 50 years have killed almost 40 people. There are instances where properties were destroyed but there are also instances where there is real loss of life. Sometimes the collapse of buildings, cracking of roads results in major accidents. Msimanga said there were eight sinkholes in Laudium. “We are already treating three sinkholes in this financial year but it is a moving target with the rains continuing. “We will budget for another three in the next financial year, two are relatively small, they will be temporarily treated,” Msimanga said. He said in Valhalla they had three major sinkholes that were developing. “The sinkholes are costly, one sinkhole in Laudium will cost R30m, the team has assured me that bulk services will not be affected. We were assured that houses near the R55 will not be affected but should anything happen, we will deal with it,” he said.Gauteng MEC Ismail Vadi said the geologists and technical people had done an initial scoping of the immediate vicinity of the scene. -NTOMBI NKOSI|ntombin@thenewage.co.za