THE president “shares the concerns” that Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has raised regarding businessman Mark Lamberti and “is confident that he will deal with the issue appropriately”, the Presidency said yesterday. Gordhan is seeking legal advice over the appointment of Lamberti to the Eskom board following an embarrassing court finding on Tuesday that the Imperial Holdings CEO “impaired the dignity” of former employee Adila Chowan. He called Chowan, an Asian, a “female employment equity” in front of other managers. The North Gauteng High Court found no evidence of racial or gender discrimination by Lamberti or the company. Lamberti apologised unreservedly for the remarks. Now business lobby groups and other pressure groups are asking whether President Cyril Ramaphosa, who was deputy president at the time, knew about the legal case pending against Lamberti when he made the appointment. Makgola Makoloko, the acting director-general at Public Enterprises, said the minister is seeking legal advice on the matter. In response to The New Age, Imperial said it had noted the high court judgment and was pleased that there were no findings of race or gender discrimination against Imperial or Lamberti. “Mr Lamberti deeply regrets that his comments were upsetting to Chowan. It was not his intention to insult or demean her in any way and he apologises unreservedly. “For the record, Chowan did not have any employment contract beyond her letter of employment, which provided for one month’s notice and Imperial remains committed to the principles of the Employment Equity Act,” the company said. It said only one of Lamberti’s five direct reports is a white male, 51% of the 137 chartered accountants (Chowan’s job) employed by Imperial are from previously disadvantaged groups and 40% of these are female. The Black Business Council (BBC) wants Lamberti to be fired with immediate effect. Chowan brought the case against Lamberti when he made the remarks in a meeting about her potential career path, in which he also said she was “technically competent” but would need more time to develop her leadership skills. She has said she originally wanted an apology but when that was not forthcoming decided on court action. Imperial and Lamberti were ordered to pay costs, with damages yet to be set. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za