AT THE height of apartheid and during her banishment to the small farming town of Brandfort in the Free State, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who was known as prisoner 1323/69, had to devise very enterprising methods to communicate with the world outside of the secluded town. With limited access to the town folk and the Hawkeyes from the apartheid government on her, it was not easy for the struggle icon to even manage projects that she started to help the impoverished people in the town. This is where the town folk had to come in and, together with MadikizelaMandela, work as an underground network to get things done. Norah Moahloli, 75 years old, remembers how she had to be a front for Madikizela Mandela’s feeding scheme programme during the dark days of apartheid. Moahloli was a Xhosa teacher in Brandfort when Madikizela-Mandela arrived. The Majemasweu woman remembers Madikizela-Mandela’s bravery for becoming her friend even though the special branch had prohibited her from any contact with other people. Madikizela-Mandela arrived at house 802 together with younger daughter
Zindzi on May 16, 1977. The house did not have any running water, no electricity or ceiling and the winter in that part of the country was often chilly. “When she arrived in Brandfort she had no coal stove which were used at that time, no water buckets and other stuff that women may need in the house but I managed to organise those things for her from the local business people including whites who had mercy,” Moahloli said. “We then became friends and we mobilised the youth to fight through an operation that we called Operation Hunger, essentially a feeding scheme for needy families,” Moahloli, who had been working underground with the late freedom fighter, said. Before leading the feeding scheme, Moahlodi was introduced by Madikizela-Mandela to two women. One of whom was another struggle icon, Ellen Khuzwayo. “We worked very closely with them and instead of her becoming the leader of Operation Hunger in our area, I was a front runner in order to protect her,” the elderly Moahloli said. “When there was some important messages that needed to be passed to fellow comrades, we used to pass the message while people were eating. “We would tell them when and where to get the message about the meeting
venue. We would mark a tree with a cross towards the top and people would know in which church the meeting would be held,” Moahloli said. She said Madikizela-Mandela’s life was difficult to the point that when she was sick, she was not supposed to go to the doctor before getting the permission from the special branch police. “There was a lawyer called De Waal at that time, I do not remember his first name, I had to go to him to ask permission for Winnie to go to the doctor in Bloemfontein and he gave us the permission for her to go to the doctor at any time, whenever she was ill,” Moahloli
said. Incidentally, Moahloli was at Madikizela-Mandela’s house a day before she died. Moahloli was visiting her children in Soweto when she decided to make a turn and see an old friend of hers. “I met a security guard at the gate who told me that my friend was not well after church. “As usual, when I don’t meet her, I left a note with my name on it so that she should get back to me. Unfortunately this time it would not be, she died before she could get back to me,” Moahloli said. Moahlodi said women should be strong to lead this country to its greatness. “May her soul rest in peace, she fought the great fight and made our lives better,” Moahlodi said. beckers@thenewage.co.za