AS TRUCKERS wreaked havoc at the N3 Mooi River toll plaza bringing holiday traffic to a standstill for several hours yesterday, police said they were taken by surprise by the protest, which left frustrated holidaymakers desperate to return home from KwaZulu-Natal after the Easter long weekend. Truckers were part of a violent protest over a wage dispute and warned that this was just a foretaste of what will come if their demands were not met. The Mooi River toll plaza came to a standstill during one of the busiest weekends of the year. The strike by truck drivers turned sour when locals from a nearby informal settlement started looting the trucks as they demonstrated at the toll plaza. Police spokesperson Thembeka Mbhele said 10 people were arrested for public violence and two trucks were torched and three damaged. Police fired rubber bullets to disperse the protesters who looted and barricaded roads with tyres and rubble. By mid morning the community members from a nearby informal settlement had joined in the sporadic protest. Police Minister Bheki Cele, together with KwaZulu-Natal police management, attended to the protest. Commuters took to social media sharing their frustrations with traffic and some remained stationary for close to seven hours before the road was eventually reopened. Authorities reopened the northbound carriageway of the N3 (Johannesburg bound). The Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) said the public order police and firefighters who were called to put out the fires were stoned by demonstrators and forced to turn back. RTI spokesperson Zinhle Mngomezulu said: “The protesters are stoning whatever they’re seeing in front of them. Anything that is standing in their way, they are stoning them. “Four trucks are burning. One of them is laden with petrol. Fire engines arrived but they also stoned the fire engines. Now, the alternative routes, that is the R103 and the R62, that’s the Greytown route, there are two trucks that are also burning. “Two trucks that supply supermarkets – one is laden with groceries and they are busy looting there.” A number of people were reported dead since the start of the Easter weekend including 14 who died on Thursday when a minibus travelling on the R33 near Greytown left the road and crashed down a steep embankment. The other fatalities include those of the bus crash in Ngcobo that left 13 people including three children dead. Meanwhile, Gauteng has recorded 70% of the fatalities involving pedestrians especially in municipal areas during the Easter weekend. Despite the heightened law enforcement activities which are being carried out across three provinces, the roads continue to experience a high number of fatal accidents, which result in pedestrians losing their lives. The Gauteng law enforcement agencies said they had noted with concern the growing number of road fatalities involving pedestrians during the Easter weekend. Most of the fatalities were compounded by pedestrians walking the streets late at night and drinking especially at places of entertainment such as shebeens and taverns. MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane said: “Despite all efforts to ensure the reduction of road accidents the province has to date recorded an alarming rate of 70% pedestrian fatalities this Easter weekend. We remain concerned as law enforcement authorities as one death is one too many.” -KUTULLO MADISHA AND DIKELEDI MOLOBELA|news@thenewage.co.za