Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe is seeking leave to appeal a court ruling over the ‘once empowered always empowered principle’. The department is appealing because it claims that two of three judges erred in deciding that the Mining Charter was not legally binding. During the ruling on, April 4, the court found that the mining companies that had previously complied with the previous two versions of the mining charter’s minimum requirement of the black share-holding of 26 percent did not need to “top up” if partners had sold their shares. However, the sudden U-turn by the department will most likely frustrate the talks on the redraft of mining charter. Late last year, the Chamber of Mines took the charter for a review at the North Gauteng High Court. At the time, the then Mineral Minister Mosebenzi Zwane had agreed not to implement the new Mining Charter until judgment had been delivered on the Chamber of Mines review application. “The Minister has also undertaken that if he makes any reference in public to the Reviewed Mining Charter, he will simultaneously make reference to his written undertaking and that the Chamber has brought review proceedings to set aside the Charter,” the statement read. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) decided to also approach the North Gauteng High Court as an intervening party or friend of the court in the Mining Charter three pending interdict. Their decision came after the organisation studied the founding and responding affidavits of both the Chamber of Mines and the Minister of Mineral Resources case. NUM Head of Transformation Luthando Brukwe said: “Our legal team tomorrow the 14th September 2017 will be presenting to the court reasons why the union should be admitted, in our founding affidavits we have also assured the court that our participation will not delay or postpone the scheduled dates of the 14th -15th September 2017. “Since our intervention is premised on ensuring this process is not unduly delayed, thus negatively affecting our members and who are beneficiaries of various elements in the Mining Charter,” he said. -TNA Reporter  