THE Kruger National Park (KNP) has said the rhino poaching trend is dropping while elephant poaching is on the increase. Head of ranger services at KNP, Ken Maggs, outlined statistics for the past financial year pertaining to the anti-poaching campaign, especially when it comes to rhinos. He said in 2016, 662 rhinos were killed while last year, 204 were killed, There were 46 elephants killed in 2016 and 67 last year. There were 281 arrests made in 2016 while there were 139 in 2017. The Department of Environment confirmed it would release the latest stats next month. “Due to joint operations between the park, SAPS and the SANDF, with the help of community members, more arrests have been made outside than inside the park for the first time,” he said. Maggs said they were concerned about the number of weapons poachers use to carry out their dirty mission. In 2016, rangers found 148 firearms and the following year they found 86. “To make you understand the challenge in Kruger National Park, one must note the park is 2 million hectares in size, with 1.7 million visitors annually. It has 8000 rhinos and 12000 elephants.” He said the anti-poaching campaign had, over the months, yielded positive results but he is aware the decline might change if poachers make other plans because many millions of rands are involved. Maggs could not reveal the exact costs, fearing more people would want to poach the animals that are nearing extinction. He said their operating budget is R215m and the cost of technology and equipment is R250m. “Losing one rhino or elephant is losing one too many. We need fully committed government backing to assist in the fight against poachers. Rangers must be well equipped and there is a great need to collapse the crime networks and to sustain the campaign. “We have not lost a ranger due to poachers, although there have been cases where they were injured. “There are two threats that rangers are facing, for one ranger, a split second decision could result in them being charged for murder or they may be killed,” Maggs said. Earlier this month, the Minister of the Department of Environmental Affairs, Edna Molewa, said South Africa had entrenched environmental rights including the protection and sustainable use of wildlife in its conservation. “These have delivered a number of significantly satisfying results in an established downward trend in the number of rhino poaching incidents in South Africa since 2016. “It is an approach that is now being utilised to curb elephant poaching in Kruger National Park. This approach has resulted in poachers not only being arrested but also successfully prosecuted and receiving harsh sentences,” Molewa said. Glenn Phillips, the managing executive of the KNP said they were on the verge of finalising KNP’s management plan (which every park has to have for a duration of 10 years), which he said had been an intensive process, after more than 56 meetings with various stakeholders including communities around the park as well as all the major metros. “The plan is in the final stage, we have incorporated all the comments we received then it will go to the Minister of the Environment for technical review. I must say I think we have come up with a good plan,” Phillips said. He said the process might be finalised as soon as June this year. Phillips said the focus going forward is not about the KNP itself but the broader landscape in which they are operating. “In this 10-year process we want to grow the wilderness area in the KNP, so we want end of the term year to show that we have more wilderness allocated in the park than we had before,” he said. “The integrated land issue, if they look at what is happening in the country as a whole, there are over 2 million people living next to the park on the western boundary. The census done on unemployment, rate it ranging between 48% and 60%. “If people out there don’t benefit from the park and see the value of the park it’s a measurable challenge of how we integrate what we do all the time. “The other issue around it is communication (if you look at what the comments were), the first thing is job creation. “That can’t just be our job, according to our budget we can employ 200-250 people, since there are 2 million people there is no ways we can deal with unemployment as the park,” Phillips said. ntombin@thenewage.co.za