THE tussle between giant security company G4S and disgruntled employees over unpaid dividends from the employee share ownership plan (Esop) is heating up, with political parties entering the fray. The company made a U-turn on its promises, blaming a poor financial performance. Back in 2005 when the global security firm G4S opened in SA, it promised that workers with five or more years of service would benefit from the plan. It’s now been 12 years and workers are still waiting for dividends to be paid. The ownership plan benefit was packaged as a broad based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) initiative. G4S said it would be empowering the business with 26% BBBEE equity. A new twist emerged when The New Age pressed for details as the company confirmed it was yet to pay dividends and claimed the scheme was not a “traditional” employee share ownership plan, “as many people believe”. “This was no Esop, but a staff trust established to provide additional financial reward to formerly disadvantaged employees of G4S security solutions who have been employed by the company for at least five years. Awards to trustees are based on the financial performance of the company and therefore the company’s ability to fund payments into the trust,” communication consultant for G4S, Wendy Hardy said. Hardy said people had complicated the matter, “but we can confirm that, to date, since the establishment of the trust, no payments to trustees have been made”. “The company’s financial performance is regularly and independently audited by reputable audit firms on behalf of the trustees and the company engages regularly with trustees and their representatives on matters relating to the trust. “We hope that in future, the financial performance of the company will be such that payments into the trust and to trustees will be possible,” she said. But Gifford Mbambo, speaking on behalf of workers, said they were planning to provide detailed information to the BEE commissioner, Zodwa Ntuli, and ask for intervention before the end of next week. Mbambo said he did not understand G4S claims that the company was not making money. “When the scheme was formed in 2005, G4S made good by securing security contracts with the likes of Vodacom, MTN, Nedbank and others. “We don’t understand why they failed to be transparent on the issue of financial performance,” Mbambo said. He said the company should be transparent and open its books regarding its financial position. He said the EFF political party had promised to “make a rigorous intervention that seeks to correct the 12 years of what appeared to be a fake BEE deal”. It is understood that EFF has written a letter to G4S South Africa leadership requesting clarity. BEE commissioner Ntuli told The New Age yesterday that in terms of their records, they do not have a complaint lodged by any person regarding the G4S Esop and cannot express a view. “However, if these claims are substantiated of fronting in respect of any scheme, the B-BBEE Commission will not hesitate to conduct an investigation. Any affected party can approach us to lodge a complaint,” she said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za