AN EFFORT to have the Gupta brothers extradited to South Africa will only be made after all investigations into state capture have been concluded, Parliament has been told. Acting head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, Lt-Gen Yolisa Matakata, said at a meeting of the police portfolio committee yesterday there were ongoing investigations that “affect the same people”. She said: “We do not want to go for extradition (now) but want to finalise investigations.” At the same session, national Police Commissioner Khehla Sitole assured Parliament that he fully supported the Hawks, as the DPCI is known, in their investigations into state capture and that he would approach Treasury for more funding for the unit as well as SAPS in general. Sitole also told MPs that the head of the National Prosecuting Authority, Shaun Abrahams, and Matakata would meet to iron out any differences. At yesterday’s appearance before the portfolio committee, Sitole also explained the South African Police Service’s cold case strategy, but questions about raids on prominent politicians, including premiers, and the Gupta compound, were not responded to. Sitole gave his assurance after members of the police portfolio committee had expressed their concern that, following a critical presentation given to the committee by Abrahams in response to allegations made against him by Matakata, that the two of them had met behind closed doors. Before that meeting the Hawks had accused the NPA before the portfolio committee of not following up its investigations with prosecutions. Abrahams criticised the elite crime fighting unit when the committee called him in to respond to these allegations. Matakata said: “We had a meeting after that. There were apologies made from his side. We dealt with that. I raised my issues with him and there was an apology.” DA MP Diane Kohler Barnard said it was “fascinating to hear there was an apology behind closed doors.” “I would like Abrahams to be brought here and apologise in this meeting.” ANC MP Martha Mmola was also upset by news of the meeting. “You and Abrahams are playing us. Let Shaun and you come back to the portfolio committee and apologise.” Sitole assured the portfolio committee that he was aware of the impact of the differences between NPA and the Hawks. “We will meet, the three of us. We will be working on removing root causes and barriers (to working together) .” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN