A BOGUS labour department employee who has been defrauding farmers around Warden is still in police custody. The man who was identified as Tlalenyane Elias Ramathe reappeared in the Warden Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday for a formal bail application. He first appeared last Tuesday at the same court and the case was postponed this week. The labour department said the man was visiting farms in and around the town under the false pretence that he was sent to conduct inspections and offer training on occupational health and safety (OHS) by the department. The provincial chief director for operations, Nomfundo Douw-Jack, said preliminary investigations conducted revealed that such a person never worked for the labour department. She said upon further interrogation by the police the man claimed to be working for the department of public works. “After liaising with the public works department, it was discovered that he was an intern for the public works in 2006 and 2007,” Douw-Jack said. “We have learnt that this self-appointed person masquerading as an official contracted by the department is conducting bogus labour inspections and illegal trainings on OHS to employers in the Warden area.” She said once these flawed trainings were concluded, he then demanded that employers pay him a total of R4000 for each of those training session. “He even issues unscrupulous competency certificates to attendees of these courses. We therefore urge employers and the clients of the department in general to be wary of this individual,” Douw-Jack said. She said the man was nothing but a crook trying to milk people their hard-earned money. “We further appeal to the business community and the society at large to verify with the department the legitimacy of anyone with suspicious motives claiming to do business on behalf of the department,” Douw-Jack said. She said they would like to commend the Warden police for their swift response in arresting the criminal. “It is through inter-governmental relations and corporations of this nature that the necessary in-roads will be made in our endeavours to curb lawlessness and acts of criminality perpetuated against employers and workers alike,” Douw-Jack said. She said some of the common factors an employer needed to note to differentiate between a legitimate labour inspector and a fraudster were that • The labour official will always use a departmental email address in their correspondence. • The department has its own inspectors responsible administering compliance to the Occupational Health and Safety Act and will therefore never appoint a private individual to assume the role of any of its inspectors. • These officials always carry and should, upon request, produce identity cards and appointment letters with the department’s letterhead. The department is well aware that this individual, together with other villains like him, can try and manufacture their own identity cards and appointment letters, thus it also encourages employers to contact the department of labour HR offices should they somehow still suspect foul play. The number to call is 051 505 6230/ 31, alternatively, they can contact the fraud hotline on 0860022 194 or fraud@labour.gov.za. beckers@thenewage.co.za -BECKER SEMELA