ABSA’S Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) for December indicates deeper contraction in activity, but respondents were more optimistic about future conditions, the survey said. The PMI is an indicator of the economic health of the manufacturing sector and a reading above 50 indicates expansion in the manufacturing sector, while below 50 indicates contraction. The Absa PMI resonated well with that of Standard Bank, which showed activity slowing to a 20-month low in the same period. The Standard Bank PMI, which measure all business activities, not just manufacturing, fell to 48.4 in December from 48.8 in November, staying below the 50 mark that separates expansion from contraction for a fifth straight month. It was the lowest reading since April 2016. On the other hand, the latest Absa PMI survey declined to 44.9 points in the same period, from 48.6 in November. “The drop came after four consecutive months of improvements,” it said. The deterioration was broad-based with all five subcomponents of the headline index falling compared to November’s level. The dismal PMI reading suggests the South African manufacturing sector ended the year on the back foot – in sharp contrast to the global performance, with the JP Morgan global manufacturing PMI reaching a near seven-year high of 54.5 points in December. However, on a positive note, respondents were significantly more upbeat about conditions going forward than they were during the second half of 2017. The index tracking expected business conditions in six months’ time rose to 61.9 from 50 in November. “This suggests that, in the absence of any adverse shocks, the sector could perform better through 2018. “In addition, the stronger rand also benefitted importers of raw materials and intermediate products,” Miyelani Maluleke, economist at Absa said. Kamilla Kaplan, Investec Group economist, said the Absa PMI signalled deeper contraction in activity in December, despite the fact that respondents were more optimistic about future conditions. “Despite the weakening in activity in December, survey respondents reported being more optimistic with respect to future business conditions. “This could suggest that the manufacturing sector is expected to improve its performance in 2018,” she said. The manufacturing production figures released by Statistics South Africa last week painted a picture of the sector which has found its feet out of the recession and likely to contribute meaningfully towards GDP growth in the first quarter of 2018.   -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za