THE Gauteng Education Department’s psycho-social unit is set to visit Reiger ParkHigh School today to provide counselling for pupils and assist parents to interact with police after a sex scandal rocked the community. This comes after a video and pictures of a principal having sex with pupils in his office emerged on social media. The department has expressed its disappointment and disgust about the matter and has appealed to the public to refrain from circulating the images and videos. “The department will act in a manner to safeguard pupils and take action against any person at schools interfering with the rights of children and their parents,” education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said. He appealed to pupils, teachers and parents to cooperate with all officials sent to the school to assist them. The department said the principal had resigned in October 2017 and his last day was January 15. “It must be noted that he is no longer in the employment of the department. However, we will report him to the South African Council of Educators to be struck off the roll immediately,” department spokesperson, Steve Mabona said. In response to the scourge of sexual abuse, Gauteng Premier David Makhura last year appointed a special executive committee to ascertain the level of sexual violence and to put measures in place to ensure safety in schools. Meanwhile, the department’s psychosocial unit will also visit Parktown Boys High School following claims that a water polo coach has allegedly sexually assaulted 20 boys. Gauteng department of education spokesperson Steve Mabona confirmed that an independent firm has been appointed to investigate allegations of victimisation of some pupils by teachers following a sexual assault scandal at the school. This comes after the accused was caught on CCTV fondling one of the boys. The case has caught attention once again as a group of concerned parents have approached the department, saying boys who are victims of sexual abuse by a staff member are being victimised by a number of teachers. Parents have accused the school and the department of failing to protect the pupils, reports say. The incident occurred in November. Chairperson of the Parktown Boys High School SGB Nicolas Greyling has reportedly said the footage showed inappropriate touching of the minor by an assistant hostel master who also assisted in coaching. The DA has repeated its call for a commission of inquiry to probe the extent of sexual abuse in Gauteng schools and to establish a toll-free line for pupils to report sexual abuse in schools. DA Gauteng shadow MEC for education, Khume Ramulifho, said the principal must face the full might of the law for stripping pupils their innocence. “This principal must be named and shamed for destroying the future and the dignity of our pupils and should be registered as a sexual offender. “This problem is clearly far bigger than what we initially thought and requires greater intervention than the premier’s task team,” Ramulifho said. He said the scourge of violence against pupils has infiltrated every level of the education system. The party said it would continue to put pressure on the premier and MEC. -provinces@thenewage.co.za