As the ANC celebrates its 106th birthday, the party says it is inspired by the life of former President Nelson Mandela and intends on emulating his legacy of selflessness, sacrifice and commitment to the unity of the ruling party and people of South Africa. On Saturday 13 January, newly elected party president Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver his maiden January 8th statement in East London. The newly elected leadership of the party, led by Ramaphosa, today paid tribute to former presidents who all came from KwaZulu-Natal. Josiah Gumede, Pixley Seme, Albert Luthuli and Langalibalele John Dube, who all hailed from KwaZulu-Natal were honoured in various areas of the province. Speaking during a wreath laying ceremony at Dube’s grave, Ramaphosa called on all members of the ANC, especially in KwaZulu-Natal, to be united following the bruising leadership contest between himself and Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Ramaphosa said KwaZulu-Natal was an important place for the ANC not to be united. He said he was also reporting to Dube that the ANC that he led was still alive and strong following the elective conference. “We are here to report that we held a very successful conference. Today we can report to our first president that the ANC is still here and it has elected a united leadership,” Ramaphosa said. He said the new leadership was determined to root-out corruption because it undermined the interests of South Africans as a whole. Ramaphosa said he was honoured to be speaking at the Ethekwini region of the ANC, “which is not only the biggest in KwaZulu-Natal but also the biggest in the country.” He said the party would be visiting several grave sites of former leaders to pay their respects and thank them for making the ANC what it is. “We will be visiting the grave sites of Lillian Ngoyi, Charlotte Maxeke and other gallant women leaders.” The ANC’s new Deputy President David Mabuza laid a wreath at Gumede’s grave site at the Mountain Rise Cemetery in the Moses Mabida Region. Ramaphosa said they would also lay a wreath to remember the role played by Mahatma Gandhi in the liberation of South Africa. “We want to be inclusive and as broad as we can be.” He said, as the newly elected president of the ANC, he was honoured to be standing on the grounds where Dube’s body and spirit were resting. “I am in awe and humbled to stand at the hallowed grounds where lies one of the greatest sons of South Africa.” He said the new leadership would be travelling around the country, meeting traditional leaders and listening to what they had to say. “Traditional leaders have played a very critical role in getting us to where we are today.” The ANC top six and other National Executive Committee members also met Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini yesterday. -TNA Reporter