Recently signed Ivorian Yannick Zakri scored twice as lowly Ajax Cape Town used home advantage to stun title contenders Orlando Pirates 3-0 on Wednesday in the South African Premiership. Captain Mosa Lebusa gave the Cape Town outfit an early lead that Zakri, on loan from star-stacked leaders Mamelodi Sundowns, doubled before half-time. The former ASEC Mimosas of Abidjan sharpshooter scored again on 83 minutes to seal a winning margin that would have been beyond the wildest dreams of Ajax before the kick-off. They had lost three and drawn one of five matches since Turkey-born coach Muhsin Ertugral replaced sacked former Netherlands goalkeeper Stanley Menzo during the mid-season break. Instead of climbing one place to second, Pirates dropped one spot to fourth on 30 points, behind Sundowns (35), Cape Town City (31) and greatest rivals Kaizer Chiefs (30). “That was an exceptional performance,” said Ertugral, who has coached numerous South African clubs and abruptly quit Pirates last season after they conceded six goals in a league match. “Our keys to success were being well organised and closing down space against a very good Pirates team,” he said. Despite the triumph, Ajax stayed second last with 20 points, but are only one behind unexpected strugglers SuperSport United, who fell 1-0 at home to resurgent AmaZulu. Pretoria-based SuperSport continued a disastrous run since being beaten in the CAF Confederation Cup final by TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo last November. Since the 2-1 aggregate defeat in the African equivalent of the Europa League, SuperSport have played 14 Premiership matches, winning two, drawing five and losing seven. “We cannot put the ball in the net,” lamented coach and South Africa 1996 Africa Cup of Nations-winning midfielder Eric Tinkler. “When we do score a couple of goals, morale and confidence will soar. We may be close to the relegation zone, but there is no cause for panic.” For-sale bottom club Platinum Stars have 15 points, Ajax 20 and SuperSport, one of the pre-season title favourites, defending champions Wits and Polokwane City 21. -AFP