AS HIS party is being savaged by internecine warfare in the city of Cape Town, DA leader Mmusi Maimane is trying to establish himself as a leader of substance by calling for an urgent meeting with Cyril Ramaphosa in his capacity as leader of government business. He wants to discuss how they can best work together to tackle the drought crisis in the city of Cape Town to avoid Day Zero. In asking for the meeting, Maimane has tried to bypass President Jacob Zuma. However, this meeting is unlikely to take place because what Maimane is asking for falls outside Ramaphosa’s remit as leader of government business, according to sources. In November, while answering questions orally about his role, Ramaphosa told the National Assembly that as leader of government business he regularly tabled a report to the cabinet on the activities of members of the executive. It was also not part of his functions to discipline ministers. Yesterday Maimane said in his statement he was willing to work with anyone who was committed to avoiding Day Zero, regardless of political affiliation. “I would like to ensure maximum coordination between various players, so that we can avoid Day Zero together. Therefore it is crucial that Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba and the Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane are also part of this meeting to address the financing model for water supply and the national government’s plans around funding and bulk water infrastructure.” Maimane, although not a resident of the Western Cape and not holding an elected office in that province, has inserted himself into the water crisis ravaging the region by taking political control of the management of the dwindling resource. This not the first time that Maimane has reached out to Rampahosa. Speaking at The Gathering in November last year, he decried the absence of ANC speakers, including Ramaphosa, who had withdrawn from the event organised by the Daily Maverick. He also tried to insinuate that there was some closeness between the DA and Ramaphosa, who was then campaigning for the ANC presidency. “I’m actually surprised that Cyril Ramaphosa is not here. After all, his new deal is in fact DA policy. It would be deeply unfair to give the DA two speakers at such a morning session. I thought I’d point that out so that you would understand what happens to liberation movements,” Maimane said at the time. Meanwhile, tomorrow the DA will be put to the test on whether it prizes party unity more than removing a former Western Cape leader of the party and Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille from office, when an ANC sponsored no-confidence motion is due to be debated. The DA Cape Town caucus has on more than one occasion called for De Lille’s head. The leader of the ANC in the city of Cape Town, Xolani Sotashe, said yesterday that the party would make its position on De Lille’s situation known today. news@thenewage.co.za