The DA and ANC in the Western Cape have welcomed the resignation of city manager Achmat Ebrahim with the DA calling it “the right thing to do” in the context of various investigations related to his, the mayor and other senior officials’ conduct. The DA said Ebrahim committed to providing evidence to these investigations and it trusted that he would fulfill this commitment without fear or favour, in the interest of the people of Cape Town. The party was responding after city of Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille’s announcement that she had received Ebrahim’s resignation letter, with effect from Friday 12 January. According to De Lille, Ebrahim cited his desire to defend allegations made against him in the Bowman Gilfillan Inc report. DA leader in the Western Cape Bonginkosi Madikizela said it was however surprising and regrettable that by his own admission, Ebrahim was directly requested by De Lille not to disclose the fact that he had resigned on Friday. “This means that a material fact relating to the city was deliberately withheld by De Lille at the time that the DA Federal Executive was deliberating on her matter,” Madikizela said. He said De Lille must account to both the DA and to the residents of the city of Cape Town for her decision not to announce Ebrahim’s resignation. Madikizela said the DA in the Western Cape would continue to monitor developments closely to ensure that the interests of the residents was prioritised. Meanwhile, the ANC’s Dullah Omar region said it felt vindicated by a decision to question Ebrahim’s appointment as municipal manager. Spokesperson Khaya Yozi said the process to appoint him was questionable, hence they objected when the process became suspicious. He said Ebrahim must know that he is not free from the allegations that have been leveled against him. “We advise him not to think of any fancy holidays outside the country. The ANC is vindicated by the DA’s ‘investigations’ into the unlawful appointment of the city manager,” Yozi said. -TNA Reporter