The MK Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) yesterday bemoaned the preoccupation of ANC members with President Jacob Zuma’s removal, as this would destroy unity within the party. Fierce discussions regarding Zuma’s fate have increasingly dominated South African politics, even more so as he is no longer the president of the ANC and with the party celebrating its 106th anniversary in the Eastern Cape this week. Newly-elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa, with the rest of the newly-elected national executive committee (NEC) members, had forged unity after conceding that factions were unbecoming for the historic democratic movement. “Given what had happened in the build-up to last year’s ANC national elective conference, we went there with our own slates, however, the outcome of the elective conference was different,” MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe said. The outcome of the 80-strong ANC NEC election, especially the top six at the elective conference, represented the supposed slates of Ramaphosa and his closest rival at the time, ANC MP Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Maphatsoe said the newly-elected ANC leadership should not let down its branches by calling for Zuma to step down, as this would divide the party. In 2008, the ANC NEC recalled then president Thabo Mbeki from office. This unprecedented move at the time seemingly still haunts the party as it is constantly reflected upon. Continuing in Zuma’s defence, Maphatsoe said: “We cannot ignore the role of Zuma in the liberation struggle and it would not assist the ANC if its newly-elected leadership will be preoccupied with Zuma’s recall. Whereas they have to consider the mandate given to them by branches of unifying the party.” Cosatu and the SACP, which form the tripartite alliance with the ANC, have been vocal with regard to seeing Zuma being recalled, given his constant confrontations with the law, which resulted in various parties calling on him to answer numerous matters in the courts. “The tripartite alliance is for unity within the ANC but it cannot be based on abandoning its principles such as the rule of law,” Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said. Refilwe Magashule news@thenewage.co.za