Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says his department has managed to reduce the number of pupils who have not yet been placed for the 2018 academic year to 3 366, bringing the total number of placed students to 318 544 pupils, of which 176 702 are in Grade 1 and 141 842 in Grade 8. Lesufi said the provincial education department received 395 applications for students who were relocating from other provinces and countries like Zimbabwe, Burundi and India. Lesufi said the highest number of relocations was from the Free State at 61, followed by KwaZulu-Natal with 56 applications and Limpopo with 51. The MEC was speaking during a media briefing on the status of placements of pupils for the 2018 academic year. “We would like to take this opportunity to thank all the parents for their cooperation, patience and understanding. We will do everything necessary to place all unplaced learners by the end of February and appeal for patience during this time. Parents are, however, advised to accept offers of placements that may not be their first choice as many schools have reached full capacity,”Lesufi said. He said his department remained convinced that its online application system was the best option. He said applying online is convenient to parents and the department is able to place a substantial number of learners in a short space of time. “We do however appreciate and understand the frustration of parents who were shuttled from place to place without receiving timeous information from the department. We humbly and sincerely apologise.” SPECIALISATION SCHOOLS Lesufi said he would be launching three several specialisation schools during the course of 2018. Rhodesfield Technical High School will be relaunched in April to focus on aviation, engineering, maths and science. According to Lesufi, the department has concluded a partnership agreement with BMW. “In terms of this agreement, BMW will take two learners on an apprenticeship programme and set up two mini training centres in the two schools to be launched in May 2018. The two schools will have an automotive focus. We will be launching two maths, science and technology schools of specialisation with a nuclear focus in April 2018. The department has an MOU with the Nuclear Energy Corporation of South Africa (NECSA) to support and develop the two schools.” “Two learners from one of the said schools will be going on a study tour to Russia in February. NECSA has also offered two learnerships from the Grade 12 class of 2017.” SCHOOL GOVERNING BODIES As the three-year term of school governing bodies (SGB) come to en end, Lesufi encouraged parents to take part in the election of new governing bodies. The three-year term for the current school governing bodies comes to an end on 28 February. The campaign for the new SGB elections will be launched on 6 February. “Active participation by skilled professionals will ensure that the principal, educators and other staff of the school in the performance of their professional functions receive adequate support and encourage other parents, learners, educators and other staff at the school to render voluntary services to the school. We also need SGB members who understand that the role of SGBs is to promote the best interests of the school and strive to ensure its development through the provision of quality education for all learners at the school.” SEXUAL MISCONDUCT On sexual misconduct at Reiger Park High School, Lesufi said the department has demanded the immediate resignation of the principal. Lesufi said they have submitted the name of the principal to South African Council for Educators(SACE) calling for him to be blacklisted and barred as an educator. He said the learners and teachers also received a debriefing from the psycho-social unit and were offered necessary support. Currently, according to Lesufi, no sexual abuse case has been opened against the educator because no learner or parent disclosed any incidents to officials. HOERSKOOL OVERVAAL Lesufi said the department has met its legal team and they have resolved to approach the Constitutional Court directly to give a ruling on the case involving Hoerskool Overvaal. Earlier this month, the North Gauteng High Court set aside the department’s decision to admit 55 additional students who were to be taught in English at the Afrikaans school. He said they would be filing their papers this Friday as they believe they have grounds to appeal. -TNA Reporter