THE success rate of business rescue cases is slowly rising and now exceeds 30%, although the official statistic from the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) tops 50%. Debtsource CEO Frank Knight says that business rescue is a relatively speedy process, taking on average 12 to 13 months to complete. “It is a court-mandated process in which a business rescue practitioner is appointed to facilitate the rehabilitation of a company in financial distress. Its goal is to enable the company to return to solvency and continue to trade,” he said. Businesses are still feeling the impact of low investor confidence and high fiscal uncertainty inherited from 2017. A recent survey by Deloitte identified the high-risk sectors as retail, agriculture, construction and resources. According to the Companies and intellectual Property Commission, 2 499 businesses have entered into business rescue proceedings over the past five years – with the majority coming from the wholesale and retail industry and ICT and construction sectors. Of the 1 358 business rescue proceedings that have been concluded, 29% reached substantial implementation to the satisfaction of creditors. Alastair MacDuff, chairperson and CEO of TMA Southern Africa (TMASA) says that restoring investor, business and consumer confidence would require a concerted effort to address these pressing issues – and address them in the best interests of the country as a whole. Meryl Pick, Old Mutual Investors Fund retail analyst, said that last year’s downturn was fundamentally different to the previous slump in consumer confidence experienced by the retail sector in 2009. “During the last downturn, unsecured lending, personal loans, shortterm loans and social grants were still very much on the rise, which effectively served to offset the lower confidence levels and lagging GDP that the country was battling. “In contrast, the latest downturn has seen a tighter credit environment, partly due to regulation, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for consumers to access credit or utilise credit extensions, meaning there is nothing offsetting the cyclical slump this time around,” she said. Efforts need to focus on the existing local unemployment problem which must be seen as a priority. Investor friendly policy amendments and structures to mitigate confusion around the Mining Charter, energy policy and dealing with state-owned enterprises debts are also major challenges that require urgent attention. Business rescue legislation has opened many new avenues for underperforming or distressed businesses in South Africa, providing an alternative to liquidation. “When a company is in financial distress and cash flow dries up, panic can set in, affecting creditors, employees and management. A business rescue practitioner can bring a sense of calm to a seemingly chaotic and uncertain process – providing a breather for companies to stabilise and investigate their options to turn the business around,” MacDuff said. The good news however, according to Macduff, is that SA has a relatively open economy and a resilient business resolve. “To survive the current landscape, improved productivity and efficiency as well as diversified skills and flexibility will be paramount. Businesses will also need to find ways to decrease infrastructure and reduce financial risk in their environments. “While growth will come from areas such as inbound investments, exports, investment in Africa and foreign acquisitions, for example, the restructuring and rescue industry will have a critical role to play in helping businesses transition to new and more effective business models in a turbulent setting,” he said. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za