A senior administrative officer employed in the Department of Roads and Transport has been arrested at his workplace in central Johannesburg.  @ANN7tv Suspect was served with a suspension letter & arrested on the spot! pic.twitter.com/3oHZsSz3rc — #KeMotswana (@IamTlotlego) January 31, 2018 The officer was arrested on Wednesday during a joint operation by the South African Police Services and Anti-Corruption Unit of the Road Traffic Management Corporation. < Vadi on arrest: @ANN7tv pic.twitter.com/rU0zaZ08sr — #KeMotswana (@IamTlotlego) January 31, 2018 The employee who works in the Department’s Monitoring and Research Unit for driver license testing centres has also been issued by the Head of Department, Ronald Swartz, with an immediate suspension notice and an internal disciplinary charge sheet. Gauteng MEC for Roads and Transport Ismail Vadi said the employee is alleged to have contravened several provisions the National Road Traffic Act between July and December 2017. He is being charged criminally for irregularly converting the codes of driving licenses and for issuing fraudulent driving licenses. “He is facing five counts of ‘serious misconduct’ departmentally relating to the fraudulent issuing of driving licenses, cancelling of driving licenses, upgrading and/or converting of driving licences, attempting to improperly gain access to the National Traffic Information System (NaTIS), and performing certain administrative functions that he was not authorised to carry out. “An internal departmental investigation has found that he is alleged to have irregularly processed 106 driving licenses applications. The unauthorised licenses were issued from 16 DLTCs in Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal and North-West provinces.” Vadi said that the latest arrest is an essential part of the Gauteng provincial government’s strategy to fight fraud and corruption in the public service. He indicated that the investigation was ongoing and further arrests are likely to take place in the near future. -TNA Reporter 