THE Young Communist League of South Africa (YCLSA) called on the provincial government to create sustainable jobs for young people to be able to participate in the mainstream economy in both the province and the country. A grim picture has been painted for South Africans over the years with statistics showing that two out of three young people are jobless. Stats SA said the highest levels of youth unemployment were in the province, with nearly half of the province’s 15 to 34 year olds unemployed. The labour department said the youth aged 15-34 remained vulnerable in the labour market with 30% not being employed, educated or trained. YCLSA said it was unacceptable that a high number of young people in the province were still struggling to find employment. In a telephone interview yesterday, the district secretary in the Josie Mpama district, Noma Moloi, said there had been little done to empower young people in FS. “Unemployment in the province remains unacceptably high and recent economic growth has done little to alleviate it,” Moloi said. “We approach youth unemployment as a problem facing largely historically disadvantaged sectors of youth such as young women, rural youths and African youth in particular and black youth in general. Working class youth are therefore hardest hit by the unemployment crisis.” She said a number of youths had been exploited by other government programmes. “It cannot be correct to see the majority of young people in our district only participating in EPWP and being exploited in the super-chain companies as we have recently seen in the Shoprite saga,” Moloi said. She however called on young people not to rely on the government for jobs. “Much as we know how difficult it is to start a business, we however want to urge the youth to go into the business route as we all know that jobs are very scare. We also call on the provincial government to support the cooperatives formed by young people,” she said. Moloi also called on the private sector to come to the party and assist the youth with funding. “There are scores of young people who have great ideas and initiatives but they die in the process because they are not able to access funding from the private sector, so we are making a genuine call to them to support the youth in the province,” she said. Moloi conceded lack of education, skills development and training as a serious setback in fighting youth unemployment. She said they would this year engage the youth on its programmes aimed at creating opportunities such as Joe Slovo Right to Learn Campaign. “The low levels of reading in our communities is worrying and is also a major contributing factor to the inability to alleviate poverty. “We will be encouraging the youth to sharpen their minds through literature. We are striving for reading and education to be fashionable among young people,” she said. Moloi said the YCLSA welcomed the announcement by President Jacob Zuma to provide the poor with free higher education. “We welcome the decision and the announcement by President Jacob Zuma that from January higher education will be 100% subsidised for the poor. Experts have however indicated that free education is not yet a sustainable concept due to the state of our economy and we therefore want to plead and to encourage all stakeholders and especially the private sector to assist in making it a reality for our youth,” she said. Moloi said the youth were the most eager to learn and the least conservative in their thinking. MICHAEL TLHAKUDI michaelt@thenewage.co.za