About 13 899 pupils across Limpopo have not secured school placements and are currently unsure about their schooling for 2018, due to a lack of space, the DA has said. This could potentially go on until the end of the week, or even extend to next week, as a number of pupils will be returning from their holidays. DA provincial spokesperson Jacques Smalle said Polokwane had the highest number of stranded pupils with 6 996 and that this situation emphasised a lack of planning by the provincial education department. “We urge the department to actively pursue establishing more schools in the urban areas, as the demands of urbanisation and growing economy requires more schools to be built,” Smalle said. The DA has submitted written questions to Limpopo education MEC Ishmael Kgetjepe to provide a comprehensive report regarding the overall enrollment and schools capacity, while also providing plans to resolve the matter. Meanwhile, more pupils in other provinces are reported to be seeking placements at schools as well. Gauteng education department spokesperson Steve Mabona said the province had about 30 000 pupils that had not yet secured placements in schools. The department has invited parents to visit its centres on Saturday and Sunday, to resolve the placements issue. In KwaZulu-Natal, the education department’s head of communication Muzi Mahlambi said the province was dealing with pupils whose parents want to change their schools for various reasons. “We cannot tell how many pupils have not been placed yet, until next week, when schools resume,” Mahlambi said. The Western Cape education department faces the same issue. “At this stage, parents will not be guaranteed their first school of choice if their children have not yet been placed. Parents should accept places they have been offered, or apply to schools that the district advises them to apply to. The majority of our schools have indicated that they are full. We can therefore only refer parents to schools where there is availability – these are only in certain areas and certain grades,” provincial education department spokesperson Jessica Shelver said. -TNA Reporter