Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has described the judgment on the Hoërskool Overvaal case as “a serious miscarriage of justice” and it was for this reason, he said, that the department had decided to take the matter to the Constitutional Court on appeal. In an interview with The New Age, Lesufi said that in most cases, it was not an issue where pupils had to travel to get to a particular school but it was people who resided in the area that were objecting to the policies. Lesufi said there should be an adequate consideration that in some areas, the demographics were changing. This change should mean that the old had to adjust its previous ideals, as schools in Gauteng were meant to be used by children who lived in the province, he said. “Our argument is that school governing bodies must be mindful of these developments and adapt their policies,” Lesufi said. The links between policies that hark of segregation, used by mainly Afrikaans-medium schools, have become a political hot potato. Various political parties have aired their views on the matter. Demonstrations outside the Vereeniging-based school turned ugly last week as protesters were hospitalised after being shot at with rubber bullets by the police, while several arrests, including those of high school Cosas members, were made during two days of protest action. According to Lesufi, there should be a debate on the matter and bullying should be avoided. He called for the argument of opposing views and cautioned against the use of insults and intimidation during this process of debate. Lesufi said that as a department, they did not endorse the use of language to exclude others from enjoying their rights as South Africans. He said there was a need to ensure that all languages were equal and this should not bar any pupil from admission, adding that the department would continue to fight for pupils to enter public schools. “We shouldn’t use language to determine whether to admit someone or not,” Lesufi said. Last week, judge William Prinsloo ruled against the department, which wanted 55 English-speaking pupils to be admitted at Hoërskool Overvaal. Prinsloo said that department didn’t probe whether the school was able to admit additional pupils. news@thenewage.co.za