THE net has been closing on rhino poachers resulting in a decrease in poaching nationally in the past year with 1028 rhino poached from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 compared to 1054 in the same period in 2016. But the government says the battle is far from over as five provinces had seen an increase in rhino poaching while elephant poaching also spiked in the past year. Addressing a briefing on the progress of the implementation of the integrated strategic management of rhinos yesterday, Minister of Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa Molewa said that a total of 502 alleged rhino poachers and 16 alleged traffickers had been arrested nationally last year. This was a decrease from 2016 when 680 poachers were arrested. Of these 446 poachers were arrested in or near Kruger National Park. “This comprises 189 arrested inside Kruger and 257 adjacent to the park. This represents an increase compared to 2016 when a total of 417 were arrested inside and adjacent to the KNP. A total of 220 weapons were seized in rhinorelated incidents both inside and outside the Kruger Park in 2017,” Molewa said. She said some of the arrests made for poaching-related offences were from their own personnel. “Regrettably, during 2017, 21 officials were arrested in this regard. With regards to ensuring that all cases involving poaching make it to trial and are successfully prosecuted, the work of the National Prosecuting Authority is of paramount importance.”  To address this problem SANParks instituted a programme of integrity testing throughout the organisation, to support its ongoing anti-poaching efforts, she said, adding that 1 346 environmental monitors had been deployed to rhino poaching hot spots to assist with environmental protection. The minister added that the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations (DPCI), the Hawks, working in close cooperation with other government departments, had done sterling work since January 2017. Between April 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017, the Hawks arrested 16 level three or four (courier/local buyers and exporters) wildlife traffickers of southeast Asian, South African, Mozambican, Zimbabwean and Kenyan origin – and confiscated 168kg of rhino horn. Given the complexities of these syndicates Molewa regarded this figure as a significant achievement. These cases were linked to rhino poaching incidents in KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo and the arrests were further linked to incidences in Swaziland and Mozambique. Ten of these cases involved end-users from Asia. One of the cases included a consignment of horns seized at OR Tambo International Airport in February 2017 en route to Hong Kong via Swaziland. Molewa also assured that cases would not be left without making it to trial and successful prosecution. She noted that the work of the National Prosecuting Authority was of paramount importance. One of the cases under way and finalised against international rhino horn traffickers include Jaqueline Similo Nkomo who was arrested for possession of two rhino horns in 2017 is due to be sentenced on March 6. Speaking on the developing trends linked to rhino poaching in the country. Molewa said: “The Hawks have determined that there are a number of new trends linked to rhino poaching in South Africa. “Smugglers are coming up with new ways and methods to process horn and smuggle it out of the country.” While there had been a decrease in the number of rhino killed for their horns in the Kruger National Park, the number of rhinos poached had increased in KwaZulu-Natal, Northern Cape, Mpumalanga, Free State and North West. Meanwhile, 67 elephants were poached in the Kruger National Park and one was poached in KwaZulu-Natal. kutullom@thenewage.co.za