THE Nelson Mandela Foundation wants displays of the old apartheid South Africa flag to be banned and has applied to the Equality Court to achieve this. The foundation says it wants to have the “gratuitous display of the old flag
of apartheid South Africa declared as hate speech, unfair discrimination and harassment based on race”. The decision comes after “years of watching public displays of the old flag and hoping that such behaviour would stop”, the foundation said. “These displays demonstrably compound the pain experienced by millions of black South Africans who suffered under apartheid and continue to struggle under its legacy,” the foundation’s CEO, Sello Hatang, said. “The Nelson Mandela Foundation has a deep appreciation for the importance of history and memory, especially in a country that is still healing, as well as the right to freedom of expression, which is enshrined in our Constitution.” Hatang said the old flag was part of history and belonged in museums, documentaries and cathartic creative work. In October last year during a protest against farm murders, dubbed Black Monday, there were at least two incidents of the display of the old flag Hatang said through public debates with AfriForum, one of the leading figures in the Black Monday demonstrations, it became apparent to the foundation that some South Africans do not fully appreciate that apartheid was a crime against humanity and that gratuitous displays of apartheid symbols, such
as the old flag, are a celebration of that crime, and a humiliation of its victims. “During these debates, AfriForum conceded that displaying the old flag was ‘unwise’ as it ‘offends some people’ but argued that it should nevertheless not be ‘unlawful’ as it was a part of history and ‘you cannot ban history’,” Hatang said. Displaying the old flag, which serves no genuine journalistic, artistic or academic purpose in the public interest, Hatang said, is not about remembering but rather about forgetting our painful pasts. It does nothing to advance social justice, national unity and human dignity,
he said. “They cannot be protected by our Constitution, or defended in the name of tolerance and reconciliation, as they demonstrate a total rejection of tolerance, reconciliation and all of the values underlying the Constitution.” The foundation is not pressing for criminalisation in relation to gratuitous displays of apartheid symbols but instead using law to discourage their use. Meanwhile, AfriForum has lambasted the foundation’s court application, saying it would be a setback for freedom. “We are not in support of the court application because freedom of speech should not be banned. However, we don’t support the displaying of the flag,” AfriForum’s Kallie Kriel said. lillians@thenewage.co.za