Several civil society organisations have called on Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba to deliver a budget that will prioritise the interests of the marginalised and the rural populations that can be used as an instrument to advance the progressive realisation of socio-economic rights in the Constitution. The organisations consisting of Section 27, Public Service Accountability Monito, the Heinrich Boll Foundation, the Rural Health Advocacy Project, the Institute for Economic Justice, Metro Community Services, the Equal Education Law Centre, the Studies in Poverty and Inequality Institute, the LGBTI Community and Health Centre, Shukumisa Coalition, Oxfam South Africa, Equal Education, the Treatment Action Campaign, Alternative Information Development Centre, the National Shelter Movement as well as five others have said they are calling for more equitable allocations of health, education and social development to rural areas that recognise that in seeking quality services, rural communities face certain constraints and urgent action that is required to adequately resource rural service delivery. Gigaba will deliver his maiden budget speech in Parliament on Wednesday but many say it will also be his last. “In addition, the budget must indicate where resources for combating violence against women and children have been allocated and will be spent,” the organisations said in a joint statement. They said they were against all forms of state capture and that they would like to see measures that would see a real improvement in the lives of the poor, including through the building of a developmental public service and the reorientation of state-owned enterprises towards servicing the public. NGOs said their members were concerned about growing pressure for budget austerity arising from the period of looting of public resources and a low economic growth rate and wished for a need to protect social spending and advancing pro-poor programmes and promoting employment. “We are extremely concerned about the implications of proposals to increase VAT, which places a disproportionate burden on the poor. Any potential revenue shortfall should be addressed in a manner that increases the progressiveness of the taxation system. Our organisations expect our new president to avoid any unilateral action in this regard and ensure that there is proper engagement on this matter.” “We would like to see a new approach from Treasury in this new administration, including in the budget, which reflects active support for a pro-poor agenda. Civil society appreciates the role Treasury needs to play in fighting corruption, including through its public procurement office but also recognises the conservative role, particularly regarding economic policy, that Treasury has played historically. In no sphere of government can we afford to revert to ‘business as usual’.” The organisations have welcomed President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement during his State of the Nation Address on Friday that he would convene a social sector summit this year and would commit to using the occasion to advance a progressive policy agenda that responds to the urgent social and economic challenges facing the country. -TNA Reporter