The DA in the JB Marks municipality on Thursday said it would be laying criminal charges against politicians and officials responsible for the forging of council resolutions used in court cases to keep former municipal manager Nomathemba Blaai-Mokgethi in her post. The party said Blaai-Mokgethi’s sudden resignation after a damning report came to light would not stop it from filing charges. Blaai-Mokgethi now serves as a member of the Gauteng provincial legislature. The DA said this was an indication that the ANC was rewarding corruption and mismanagement at the expense of the people. DA councilor in the JB Marks municipality Hans Jurie Moolman said the party would be laying charges following a report in the local newspaper on 15 February, which revealed in detail how council resolutions were forged and also used – not only to mislead council – but also the Mmabatho and North Gauteng High Courts in court papers. Moolman said the DA was pushed by the Auditor-General‘s disclaimer on the municipality in which he said it was the worst he had ever seen in democratic South Africa. “For the past three years, we have been raising concerns over the irregularities in the municipality under the management of Dr Blaai-Mokgethi but our concerns were simply dismissed by the executive mayor and speaker,” Moolman said. “Even formal requests to take steps in accordance with legal prescripts were blatantly ignored.” He said he was in possession of full records of issues that were raised with various offices of the executive mayor, the speaker and the accounting officer but he was not yet ready to release the names of the people whom the DA would be laying charges against. “When this matter is eventually investigated, none of those who we foresee to be implicated will be able to claim that they were not aware of the happenings. They were entrusted by the council to conduct an oversight role and they failed dismally.” “We will pursue criminal charges and ensure that the wrongs that deprived our community of progress are exposed and whoever was an accomplice to what happened under the accounting officer’s watch is brought to justice.” He said the DA commended all opposition parties who had supported efforts to combat corruption and members of the ANC caucus who stood their ground despite severe pressure to tow a specific party line, which is dictated by powerful individuals party. -TNA Reporter