A BRAWL is brewing between Gauteng municipalities and residents as the province runs
out of burial space. At the heart of this is resistance to alternative options such as cremation. Of the 37 cemeteries the city of Joburg owns, 33 are already full, including Avalon Cemetery in Soweto where people are now being buried on top of relatives. While municipalities insist there is no land available for new cemeteries, the Commission for the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL) is rallying behind residents, saying cremation and recycling are not an option as they violate people’s rights to practice their culture. The organisation yesterday held a press briefing to address challenges relating to burials. It said it had received more than 100 complaints, including from family members who cannot access loved ones’ graves. “Some local government authorities say they have run out of land to bury people and advise that they must now think of cremation. Sometimes there is destruction of old graves to make way for new economic or social development. When Eskom built the Medupi power station they had to bulldoze graves and they built on top of graves,” she said. While some families have warmed up to the idea of recycling graves by burying on top of another dead family member, cremation is being largely rejected. Alexandra resident Celina Ngobeni said she would never consider recycling or cremation because it is against her culture. Traditional healer Morungwa Yelani also discouraged people from cremation and recycling graves, saying that the dead would not rest in peace. “As Africans, we do different rituals for the dead. Cremation is even worse, the spirit will not rest and will be troublesome. After cremations, people tend to throw ashes into rivers but rivers are not clean. Dead bodies and animals are thrown in there,” Yelani said. Joburg has annual burial rates across all cemeteries averaging around 17000 a year. This is less that in Ekurhuleni which has only 18 cemeteries still operating out of the 63 the
municipality owns. However, pastor Mduduzi Nomnga from Excellence House of God in Johannesburg said the
recycling of graves and other burial options did not matter in the Christian religion. “It does not matter when you bury on top of another person because in that body there is no longer life as the spirit returns to the Lord,” he said. The city of Ekurhuleni said since 2007 it had been engaging members of the community to consider alternative ways of burial. “The city has differing capacities at the various cemeteries ranging from several months to several years,” city spokesperson Themba Gadebe said. The city of Joburg said there were solutions being explored, among them the development of four new cemeteries. “However, we want to encourage families to start looking at other alternatives such as
burying in the same grave and cremation,” Joburg city parks and zoo spokesperson Jenny Moodley said. President of the National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa Muzi Hlegwa said the shortage of burial grounds had led to bodies piling up at mortuaries. “In Inanda in KZN, families are digging graves in nearby land because they can’t afford to wait any longer,” Hlengwa said. -NTOMBI NKOSI, SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE AND SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO