Following a day of high drama and uncertainty, constitutional law expert Pierre De Vos believes it is only a matter of time before President Jacob Zuma vacates his position as head of state. “If the ANC has decided that he must go, then he has no room to manoeuvre,” De Vos told The New Age on Wednesday. His comments come after a special National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, which was widely expected to deal with Zuma’s fate on Wednesday, was cancelled at the eleventh hour on Tuesday evening. According to the ruling party’s secretary -general, the cancellation was the result of a “fruitful and productive” meeting between Zuma and ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa. “The ANC leadership holds sway over its membership in the National Assembly and no matter what happens in the end, the president will be removed.” In an unprecedented move on Tuesday, parliamentary presiding officers announced the postponement of the State of the Nation Address (Sona) which was scheduled to take place on Thursday De Vos clarified that Sona’s postponement within itself was not a train smash. “Sona is not constitutionally mandated or even mandated by the rules of Parliament. It is a practice that we have, so there is no legal obligation for the president to have a Sona.” DA Chief Whip John Steenhuisen on Wednesday added that while Sona was not constitutionally mandated, the party welcomed the postponement. However, he warned that budget processes should not be affected. “We must not interfere with the budget process. There is no reason that if Mr. Zuma resigns within 24 hours that we can’t elect an acting president by next week and then ensure that Sona takes place and that the budget process happens as scheduled.” Acting President Cyril Ramaphosa possibilities? With uncertainty abound regarding Zuma’s exit, De Vos said, should the president resign, there is a high possibility that Cyril Ramaphosa could act in the position. “There must always be somebody in charge. If the Presidency is vacant, because he has resigned then there is a list of people who come in an order who are eligible to become acting president.” “First is the deputy president. If there is a resignation, he becomes acting president for no more than 30 days because within 30 days a new president must be elected.” Meanwhile, the Presidency has confirmed that Zuma will on Wednesday be chairing routine meetings of the Cabinet committees. -TNA Reporter