ANC national executive committee (NEC) member and Deputy Agriculture Minister Bheki Cele yesterday brushed off Edward Zuma’s threat to have the ruling party’s highest decision making body rein him in. Cele’s recent remarks against ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule in KwaZulu-Natal, have raised the ire of Zuma. Cele, addressing an ANC rally in Vryheid stopped short of saying Magashule should leave office. “You can’t be SG and go to a platform and say that people who have been elected will be there for five years. You need to tell us who are you working for. It’s not even two months (since we were elected) and you are already giving us five years,” Cele said. “You can’t do that without being sent by someone who sent you to destroy the ANC. The ANC will defend itself. We want this ANC to live forever and that’s why we will defend the leadership that has been elected. “Who are you? You attack the body that you have been elected to lead. We promise that five years is going to finish and if there is someone who has to leave‚ it’s you.” However, Cele said yesterday that, while he had heard about Zuma’s threat to lodge a complaint against him with the ANC NEC, he would not dignify Zuma’s threat with a response. “I didn’t hear him but I heard what was said about it so I can’t respond to something I don’t know,” he said. Zuma recently said of Cele’s remarks: “I am going to be lodging a complaint against Bheki Cele for their utter rubbish nonsense they have made in the media. “You would not expect that from the leader of the national congress particularly when we are speaking unity and this person is speaking.” Cele is not the only person to have found himself in Zuma’s cross-hairs. President Jacob Zuma’s wife, Thobeka Madiba Zuma was also taken to task by Zuma (Edward) over a picture she posted on Instagram, saying “it’s about to get ugly”. This was said in relation to talks between Zuma and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa on the former’s political future. Zuma (Edward), said the post was  “unfortunate and regrettable”. Magashule has been under fire lately from some party members who have felt that his proximity to Zuma has placed him in a compromised position amid calls for Zuma to step down as head of state. Magashule last month declared his support for Zuma at an ANC Youth League January 8 event in KZN. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO