President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday, before the nation, reiterated his willingness to
play a meaningful part in the process towards redress for the infamous Marikana massacre. Speaking during his reply to the State of the Nation Address (Sona) debate on Monday, Ramaphosa said government must be willing to admit when it had wronged its people. “I am determined to play whatever role I can in the process of healing and atonement for what happened at Marikana. Guided by the needs and wishes of the families of the 44
workers who lost their lives,” Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa was responding to a challenge issued on Monday by EFF Chief Whip Floyd
Shivambu when he urged the president to pay a visit to the mining community he had become so synonymous with. “Please go to Marikana. You don’t need a court order to pay for compensation in Marikana,”
Shivambu said. The president on Tuesday said that Marikana stands out as the darkest moment of
South Africas democracy and that government was making progress in continuous
engagement with the legal representatives of the victims, especially on matters of
compensation. Further more, he added that the process towards finalising compensation must be
concluded in the coming months. The 2012 tragedy where 44 miners lost their lives continues to be a serious blemish on an otherwise illustrious career for Ramaphosa who was a director at Lonmin mine at the time. Last year, he was barred by the widows of the slain miners from attending the fifth Marikana massacre commemoration. Meanwhile, continuing on his theme of acknowledging when government had erred, Ramaphosa characterised the Life Esidemeni tragedy as an example of most serious dereliction of duty by the state. He added that government should never allow something of that nature to ever happen
again. Earlier in the day, DA Gauteng shadow health MEC Jack Bloom confirmed that Gauteng
police had found eight more former patients from Life Esidimeni who were listed as
missing by the Gauteng health department. Four of the patients were found at the Thuli Home Centre in Orange Farm and two were
found at the San Michele Mental Institution in Kwa-Thema, Bloom said. -Siphiwe Mchunu