THE leagues of the ANC yesterday closed ranks behind public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane amid escalating calls for her head. A high court ruling on the BankorpCIEX matter resuscitated calls for her removal from office. The high court in Pretoria set aside her report into the apartheid-era bailout of Bankorp and its transaction with Absa. The DA wrote to National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete, demanding that Parliament speed up the processes to remove Mkhwebane. The party is accusing her of being “grossly incompetent”. However, ANC Youth League national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize yesterday said from the onset of her appointment, the DA held no brief for her. “We are not shocked, the DA has their own programme of wanting to run the office and if the incumbent tackles cases they don’t like, they will begin to fight that person,” he said. The court also ordered Mkhwebane to pay 15% of the SA Reserve Bank’s legal fees personally and that the remaining 85% was to be paid by her office. Despite the court’s findings, Mkhize said that could not serve as the basis for her removal. “The systems of the country’s legal system create space for all parties to seek remedy when the office of the public protector makes findings. It can’t be correct that when her findings are reviewed or set aside, she is then treated as someone who should be removed from office.” ANC Women’s League secretarygeneral Meokgo Matuba said: “The public protector has endured enormous attacks from the arrogant defenders of  colonialism and apartheid laws and she has to be defended by all progressive South Africans. “If the public protector has a case to answer she must be taken through lawful processes to answer her case, not through courts of public opinion. “The public protector is answerable to the Constitution and administratively accountable to Parliament.” MK Military Veterans Association president Kebby Maphatsoe said: “The DA has continued to insult her and her office because she is beginning to investigate cases that people are afraid to speak about. “And we still believe that Absa must pay back the money and the ANC’s 54th national conference made a resolution that the Reserve Bank must be nationalised. We still believe that.” bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO