BERNARD Morrison’s brace against Ajax Cape Town in the last 32 of the Nedbank Cup on Saturday would have given Orlando Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic a pleasant selection headache. In the absence of other strikers, Morrison was handed a rare start at the weekend. He grabbed his chance by scoring both goals in a 2-0 win to send Pirates to the last 16 of the competition and avenge the 3-0 defeat they suffered in the league match. Morrison was called into a meeting and told by the Bucs’ management that he would be given a chance to impress. He did that and that brace could signal a breakthrough into the first XI with more regualr playing time. “I want to give thanks to the technical team for this opportunity to represent the club again,” Morrison said. “There was speculation going around that I would be leaving but the coaches said they still believe in me and I can still help the club. “Before the game, I had a meeting with the coaches. They told me that they were giving me the opportunity‚ though I had been on the bench and not been playing. “So for me‚ starting ahead of those who had been playing was a risk for the coaches because people could be saying those players had been there before me. So why did they give me the opportunity? “So if I didn’t grab it with both hands‚ it meant I didn’t really appreciate what they gave to me. So I decided to return the favour by giving them a good performance.” Morrison struggled since he joined the club last year and only made eight appearances prior. He said he may have taken things for granted when he joined the club hence he struggled to break into the starting line-up. “The coaches have been telling us that proper preparation prevents poor performances so, in some way, I was not prepared for the test ahead, I took things lightly. “Now that I have got onto the stage, I think I have to know what side of me and prepare myself towards it.” Sredojevic however, said Morrison must continue working hard as he feels he has not reached his full potential. “He has worked hard from that time until now and it’s paid him back. But at the same moment, I would request from him that this is still nothing to what he is capable of,” Sredojevic said. “Because one performance will mean nothing but much more is what we are expecting from him.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za