JMPD officials on Monday morning said they had not received any application for a #HandsOffZuma march expected outside Luthuli House in Johannesburg. “No notice or application was made to the JMPD for a protest march with regard to Luthuli House. Our officers are on duty and they are on full alert to monitor the situation,” JMPD spokesperson Wayne Minnaar said. The march is being organised by a coalition of organisations, led by Black First Land First (BLF), who are vehemently opposing calls for President Jacob Zuma to vacate his office before the State of the Nation Address (Sona) on Thursday. A delegation of ANC officials, led by the party’s deputy president David Mabuza, met with Zuma on Sunday night to reportedly discuss him stepping down. However, sources close to the Presidency confirmed to The New Age on Sunday that Zuma rejected any call for him to exit his office. BLF said the push to have Zuma vacate office before his term ended would be detrimental to the stability of the country. “BLF supports the call by progressive civil society organisations to stop the focus on removing President Jacob Zuma. We say #HandsOffZuma, implement land expropriation without compensation now,” BLF said in a statement on Sunday. BLF was unable to confirm how many supporters would take part in Monday’s mass action. #HandsOffZuma: BLF is aware that white monopoly capital wants to kill radical economic transformation, hence the haste to remove President Zuma from office. We say let Zuma finish what he started. — BLACK 1ST LAND 1ST (@Black1stLand1st) February 4, 2018 #HandsOffZuma: Let President Zuma finish what he has started. If there’s evidence of corruption let them take it to the Judicial Commission of Inquiry. pic.twitter.com/7LqjwzOJsM — BLACK 1ST LAND 1ST (@Black1stLand1st) February 2, 2018 Meanwhile, the JMPD has said officials would be ready for any eventuality. “What will happen is that officers will be in the area to make sure that there is order. All the law enforcement agencies will come together and police the area and – that will happen as the day progresses.” Minnaar said, if it was necessary for certain roads to be closed, it would be announced so that motorists could use alternative routes. At the same time, adding to the mix, a group of ANC members on Sunday called for a national shutdown if Zuma failed to announce his resignation. The group, which is expected to protest under the banner of #ZumaMustGo in a national strike, has vowed to protest for every day Zuma remains in office. -TNA Reporter