ORGANISATIONS against woman and children abuse have called for tougher sentences against rapists amid charges of rape being laid against a doctor in Krugersdorp. The alleged sexual assault of a patient by a medic at the Dr Yusuf Dadoo Hospital is said to have taken place on Monday morning. Gauteng MEC for health Dr Gwen Ramokgopa, who has expressed shock at the allegation, said the hospital management had assisted the victim and alerted the specialist family violence, sexual assault and child abuse unit of the South African Police Service which opened a sexual assault case. The victim was then referred to Leratong Hospital’s crisis centre for clinical assessment, trauma counselling and collection of evidence. “I am saddened by these allegations and it’s difficult for me to comprehend how a professional entrusted to look after our vulnerable patients could commit such a heinous act. “Although we are allowing the police to do their work, we should send a strong message to our employees and community members at large that sexual assaults are human rights violations and should be strongly condemned and the perpetrators should face the might of the law,” Ramokgopa said. She said the department viewed this incident in a serious light. “We have since stopped the services of the suspected perpetrator with immediate effect. This incident should not have happened in the first place as doctors are trained to look after and care for our patients and not abuse them in any form. The implicated doctor will also be reported to the Health Profession Council of South Africa for his misconduct,” she said. Spokesperson for the Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) Javu Baloyi said: “The alleged rape shows that power relations play a bigger part in our society. We, however. applaud Ramokgopa for moving with speed to ensure that the full might of the law takes place. A precedent if the allegation is proven to be true has to be set.” Baloyi said the CGE would be monitoring the developments in the case to ensure that the alleged victim receives justice. Spokesperson for the NGO, Not In My Name, Siyabulela Jentile said if the doctor in question was found guilty, he must be stripped of his qualification and sent straight to prison for rape. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI