KwaZulu Natal premier Willies Mchunu says efforts to root out corruption in the provincial government are to get underway with lifestyle audits of officials in high-risk positions beginning with its supply Chain Management Units. Mchunu made the announcement while delivering his state of the province address held at the Royal Show Grounds in Pietermaritzburg. He announced that the lifestyle audits would be carried out in collaboration with the South African Revenue Service. The Premier also said a zero-tolerance stance will be adopted towards corruption and warned that any officials found guilty would be severely dealt with. ” We are absolutely committed to effectively combat fraud and corruption and reduce unauthorised, irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure,” said Mchunu. “We will instill a culture in our government where integrity is at the core of everything we do through our proactive integrity management programmes in the public and private sectors. We also want to commit to a public-private coalition dedicated to combatting fraud and corruption and promoting good governance,” he added. The provincial governments appears to be taking its lead on tackling corruption from President Cyril Ramaphosa who also recently championed subjecting members of the Executive to lifestyle audits. Meanwhile, Mchunu announced that the provinces job creation initiatives have managed to create 100 000 new jobs over the last year. “More will have to be done to address unemployment and in particular youth unemployment which now stands at 38.6%,” he said. Earlier in his speech, Mchunu took the time to acknowledge and thank former President Jacob Zuma for his leadership in the fight against HIV/AIDs and a number of other key areas. Former President Jacob Zuma arrives at the Royal Showgrounds for KZN SOPA @ANN7tv pic.twitter.com/jQnVYixzOu — Phathisa Mfuyo (@thisamfuyo) February 28, 2018 Zuma was in the audience when the Premier paid special tribute to him saying “we acknowledge the role you have played in the development and adoption of the National Development Plan, the fight and gains we have made against HIV/AIDS, as well as elevating South Africa’s international profile as a fully-fledged member of the BRICS alliance,” -TNA Reporter  