Deputy President David Mabuza was the Premier of Mpumalanga and Deputy President of the ANC.  He gained fame or notoriety, depending on the analysts’ viewpoint, for his so-called ‘unity vote’ which is believed to have helped swing the election of the ANC President towards Cyril Ramaphosa. Minister in the Presidency Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma: Probably the most experienced politician in SA. She has served in various ministerial roles under Presidents Nelson Mandela, Thabo Mbeki, Kgalema Motlanthe and Jacob Zuma  Known by NDZ she has held the portfolios of Health, Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs. She was also chair of the AU from July 2012 until last year.  Minister of Finance Nhlanhla Nene: Is the former Minister of Finance, appointed on 25 May 2014 and removed by President Jacob Zuma on 9 December 2015. Nene’s removal was followed by a massive outcry which led to the transfer of Des van Rooyen from the post to Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs and the appointment of Pravin Gordhan to the post. Gordhan was also later fired by President Jacob Zuma.  Deputy Minister of Finance Mondli Gungubele:  Previous Mayor of the Ekurhuleni. Gungubele has a BCom (Law) Degree and also holds a National Diploma in Nursing. He was the former MEC for Health in Gauteng.  Public Works Thulas Nxesi was Minister of Sport and Recreation. He is returning to a post he held until end March 2017. He has also served as the Deputy Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform.  Transport “Blade” Nzimande was Minister for Higher Education and Training from 2009 to 2017, and was fired by former President Jacob Zuma last year. Mzimande held the post during the crucial #FeesMustFall movement which led to the announcement of free higher education for families of the poor by Zuma in December. He has been the General Secretary of the South African Communist Party since 1998.  Tourism Derek Hanekom is the former South African Minister of Tourism serving from 26 May 2014 to 30 March 2017 when he was fired by former President Jacob Zuma. He previously served as Minister of Science and Technology from October 2012 – 2014 Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan served as Minister of Finance from 2009 until 2014 and again from 2015 until 2017, and as Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs from 2014 until 2015.  He was fired by Zuma last year – a move which was immediately followed by economic downgrades by ratings’ agencies. Communication Nomvula Mokonyane was the  Minister of Department of Water and Sanitation appointed on May 25, 2014 in the cabinet of South Africa under Jacob Zuma. She was previously Premier of Gauteng. Water and Sanitation Gugile Nkwinti was serving in the Cabinet as the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform, takes over from Mokonyane. Nkwinti will have the unenviable job of resolving drought crisis issues in various areas including Cape Town.  Agriculture Sfiso Buthelezi Deputy Minister of Finance. Previously COO for Makana Investment Corporation Limited, holding various directorships and chair of PRASA. Mining Resources Gwede Mantashe was elected  National Chairperson of the ANC. Former SG and he is also a former chairperson of the SACP. Once a trade union leader with NUM Mantashe is returning in a different capacity to the industry that he developed his political activism in. Energy Jeff Radebe was Minister in the Presidency since 2014. Previously he was Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development from 2009 to 2014. Radebe has served as a Minister Police Bheki Cele is probably a popular choice for the Police ministry which many believed needs a strong hand. He gained renown for his ‘shoot to kill’ ‘ when he was made National Commissioner of the SAPS until October 2011. He was suspended from this post due to allegations of corruption over lease agreements. He was the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries since 25 May 2014 State Security Dipuo Letsatsi–Duba is the Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration. Women and Children in the Presidency Bathabile Dlamini was Minister of Social Development and leader of the ANC Women’s League. She has been criticised in her role of  Social Development Minister due to the Sassa debacle. Social Development Susan Shabangu is Minister of Women in the Presidency. She was the Minister of mining from 2009 to 2014. Cecilia Russell Special Projects editor Information: Wikipedia 