ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa tightened his grip on the party’s Luthuli House headquarters following the announcement yesterday that former KZN provincial chairperson Senzo Mchunu will now head the party’s national organising and mobilisation subcommittee on a full time basis. Former national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa has also been appointed head of the presidency in Luthuli House. Both Mchunu and Kodwa are key allies of Ramaphosa and have played key roles in his ascendancy to the presidency. The announcements were made following a special national executive committee meeting in Irene, Pretoria yesterday. Mchunu will be deputised by North West provincial secretary Dakota Legoete on a full-time basis to spearhead organising and mobilisation ahead of the 2019 national elections. Deputy president David Mabuza will head the deployments subcommittee. Secretary-general Ace Magashule told a media briefing following the NEC meeting that the appointment of Mchunu was not a move designed to undermine his own role. Following the ANC’s December elective conference where Mchunu lost out to Magashule for the plum position of secretary-general, speculation has been rife that supporters of Ramaphosa were determined to ensure Mchunu be deployed to the party’s headquarters to balance the influence of Magashule and his deputy, Jessie Duarte. “There is no way comrade Senzo will go there to neutralise the powers of the secretary-general,” Magashule said. He said that yesterday’s meeting was convened to finalise NEC deployments. Regarding speculation over an imminent Cabinet reshuffle, Magashule said: “The Cabinet is the prerogative of the president after consultation with officials. If the matter arises in today’s meeting with the top six then we will discuss it there.” Magashule reiterated that he and ANC deputy president David Mabuza would vacate their positions as provincial premiers to serve full-time at Luthuli House. He said the move was consistent with the ANC’s resolution that leaders who hold lower positions in the organisation must vacate these when elected to a higher post. Magashule said the meeting also discussed the government’s controversial decision to increase VAT. “It was the view of the NEC that the government must consider a further range of measures to alleviate any negative consequences on the poor that may be occasioned by the VAT increase. The NEC committed to continue engagement with all social partners on this and other matters.” -BONOLO SELEBANO 