THE Competition Commission has recommended fines against 28 media companies in South Africa that include a unit of e-commerce and media giant Naspers for fixing prices to advertising agencies. The watchdog said it was seeking an order declaring that the companies breached competition rules and were liable to pay administrative penalties. Under the rules, companies in contravention of the law can be penalised as much as 10% of their annual turnover. The Competition Commission, which investigates anticompetitive conduct, has referred the matter to the Competition Tribunal for adjudication, it said. The commission said the companies, which also include Primedia, owner of one the biggest names in South African radio, Talk Radio 702, coordinated discounts and payment terms to advertising agencies that placed advertisements with members of an industry body group called Media Credit Co-Ordinators. “The practices restricted competition among the competing companies as they did not independently determine the discounts,” the commission said. Three companies, broadcaster DStv owned by Naspers, newspaper publishers Caxton and Independent Media, have already admitted to the charges and respectively paid R22.3m, R5.8m and R2.2m in administrative penalties. Other companies that have been referred to the Tribunal include Avusa, which has since changed its name to Tiso Blackstar, owner of the biggest weekend newspaper Sunday Times, The Mail & Guardian, the SABC, Conde Nast, Associated Media and Ramsay Media. See full list below 1. SABC
2. Media 24
3. Primedia
4. Mail & Guardian
5. Avusa Media
6. Mtv Networks Africa
7. Media 24 Magazines
8. Primedia Outdoor
9. Cinemark
10. Comutanet
11. Conde Nast Independent Magazine
12. The Citizens
13. Spark Media
14. Apurimac Media
15. Provantage Media
16. Radmark
17. Carpe Diem Media
18. Rodale And Touchline
19. Mandla-Matla Publishing
20. Ramsay Media
21. Lugan Investments
22. Associated Media
23. Associated Hearst
24. Capro
25. Trudon
26. United Stations
27. Continetal Outdoor
28. Media Credit Coordinators – Reuters