SOME of Africa’s most influential artists have gathered in Cape Town for the launch of Live Art Network Africa (Lana). The four-day international symposium is hosting 30 delegates from 12 African countries including Nigeria, Egypt and Zambia to discuss the future of African creative arts. The Lana colloquium has been running from Saturday and ends tomorrow at the University of Cape Town. Director of the Institute for Creative Arts and Associate professor at the University of Cape Town, Jay Pather, said: “The programme provides ways in which to access what many might consider enigmatic and at times bewildering. “Writers and artists unpack the work of a wide range of practitioners, artists who are often barometers for social and political ideas and the contexts that have given rise to their innovative, interdisciplinary practices. “It’s a combination between visual art, performance art, dance and architecture or photography and music so it’s how these different forms as we know in Africa has existed for many centuries in connecting with each other, create new and experimental ideas and live art especially on this continent has also connected with political crisis, with social change.” The Lana programme comprises a symposium, networking sessions and performances and will explore the basic tenets of live art and its conceptual underpinnings. Some speakers will navigate the plethora of forms that live art takes, others consider ways in which artists probe memorialisations of history and visions of the future. As artists of all disciplines transgress disciplinary boundaries in new and ever changing ways, the definition of performance art broadened to include not only body art but also digitised works whose liveness might exclude the living body altogether. So it was that the more contemporaneous and inclusive term “live art” came into being. Live art is also a response to the commercialising of art, eschewing notions of market value by its ephemeral, disruptive nature. And yet, works and interventions that are transient and difficult to repeat are also difficult to sustain. This question of sustainability is a crucial impetus for the formation of the Live Art Network Africa. The Lana programme features Panaibra Canda (Mozambique), Christian Etongo (Cameroon), Jelili Atiku (Nigeria), N’Goné Fall (Senegal), Laila Soliman (Egypt), Andrew Mulenga (Zambia), Wura-Natasha Ogunji (Nigeria), Mwenya Kabwe (Zambia/ South Africa), Bernard Akoi-Jackson (Ghana), Massa Lemu (Malawi) and Andrew Hennlich (USA). Performers from South Africa include Nomusa Makhubu, Sarah Nuttall, Dee Mohoto, Gabrielle Goliath, Nondumiso Msimanga, Bettina Malcomess, Katlego Disemelo, Alan Parker, Khwezi Gule, Same Mdluli, Catherine Boulle and in attendance, Nelisiwe Xaba and Donna Kukama. Performances will include works by Jelili Atiku, Bernard Akoi-Jackson, Panaibra Canda, Christian Etongo, Khanyisile Mbongwa, Dean Hutton, Chuma Sopotela and Lesiba Mabitsela. provinces@thenewage.co.za -TATENDA CHIRISERI