ANC deputy president David Mabuza is willing to serve as deputy president of the country if asked to do so, his spokesperson Zibonele Mncwango said yesterday. As Mabuza prepares to step down as Mpumalanga premier, following his election to Luthuli House at the ANC’s 54th national congress in December last year, rumours that President Cyril Ramaphosa is on the verge of pulling the trigger on a Cabinet reshuffle persist. Lindiwe Sisulu, who lost out in her bid for the ANC deputy presidency to Mabuza, and Naledi Pandor are reportedly among the names being considered for the position. While Mabuza is no longer ANC provincial chairperson, he also chaired a provincial Cabinet Lekgotla last week, where he confirmed that he would soon be vacating his office as premier. Mncwango said that while it remained Ramaphosa’s “prerogative” to appoint ministers and a deputy president to serve in the national executive, Mabuza was willing to serve wherever he was deployed by the ANC. “If he is deployed, I’m sure he will go,” he said. Mncwango said that while Mabuza would today deliver the state of the province address, the premier was preparing to leave office to serve full-time at Luthuli House. “He did indicate last week that he was at an exit-point and he would vacate his office as premier to serve as the ANC deputy president. “He is no longer the chairperson of the ANC in the province,” Mncwango said. This comes as the race to find a successor to Mabuza as provincial chairperson heats up. The likes of provincial MEC Sasekani Manzini, National Council of Provinces member Cathy Dlamini safety and security MEC Pat Ngomane, former Save Mpumalanga ANC group leader Peter Nyoni, and former provincial ANC deputy chairperson Charles Makola are being bandied about for the position. Acting provincial chairperson Mandla Ndlovu said despite a minor delay in convening a provincial general council due to a branch auditing process, the Provincial General Council was scheduled for April, and it would elect a new chairperson. “We had a problem of delay due to two branch audits but it will take place in April and yes it will fill the vacancy,” he told The New Age. Makola said yesterday he would be throwing his hat in the ring for the position of chairperson. “I’m ready to serve the movement as branches of the ANC see fit. I’m responding to a request made to us by branches and I have been approached by different branches in the province,” he said. Makola said the fact that he once served as provincial chairperson, made him better suited to serve again. “I have been a leader in the ANC before. I was a deputy chairperson in the province before. I understand the granular details needed to lead the ANC in the province. Others know that where I have worked before, my work has been excellent,” he said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za