The U.K government has on Thursday issued a travel advisory to its citizens warning against possible terror attacks in South Africa. The government has called on its citizens to be weary about travelling to the country as terror attacks are likely to occur at public spaces. It is yet unclear what intelligence may have triggered the warning. Back in 2016, the United States of America also issued a travel advisory to its own citizens travelling to South Africa, where it also cited potential attacks on the country by terrorists. The advisory drew criticism from the South African government with the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) at the time labeling the information relied upon to justify it as “dubious” and “sketchy”. Read the full U.K government statement below: Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in South Africa. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners such as shopping areas in major cities. The main threat is from extremists linked to Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL). In February 2018, two South African-British nationals were kidnapped. News reports suggest that a number of South African nationals have travelled to Syria, Iraq and Libya. They are likely to pose a security threat on their return. There’s also a threat from individuals who may have been inspired by terrorist groups, including Daesh, to carry out so called ‘lone actor’ attacks targeting public places including where foreigners may gather. South African authorities have successfully disrupted several planned attacks and made a number of arrests related to terrorism offences including alleged plots to attack Jewish targets and western diplomatic missions. South African authorities have also been effective against right-wing extremists. There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism, how to minimise your risk and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack.