PREMIER Supra Mahumapelo will be in Marikana today in a bid to reconcile the people of the area and bring much-needed unity. Mahumapelo looks set to reassert the government’s authority in all areas of the province as he presents his state of the province address in Marikana today. The choice of Marikana has raised many eyebrows with some sceptics describing the move as akin to “going into the belly of the beast”. Since 2012, when the Marikana massacre took place, the ANC-led government has found it increasingly difficult to set foot in the area. At some point, government ministers had to leave after opposition leaders and members of Amcu hurled insults at them. Last year, a group of men in the area forced a Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma entourage to hasten a quick retreat because they were not “welcome in the area”. Provincial government spokesperson Brian Setswambung said Marikana was chosen to promote healing and reconciliation in the area. “We are talking here of an area perceived hostile to the government but Mahumapelo decided that Sopa will be delivered here because he wants to see the programme of reconciliation, healing, and renewal (RHR) reaching all parts of the province,” he said Setswambung said the RHR programme has so far been rolled out to other areas experiencing challenges and the presentation of Sopa in Marikana should be seen in that context. Key focus areas Mahumapelo is expected to touch on include a review of how his administration has fared since taking over in 2014. In terms of governance, Mahumapelo is expected to give an assessment of how things have changed. The issue of clean governance comes to the fore. Indications are that little, if anything has changed in the push for clean audits. The finance department remains the
only one getting clean audits while others alternate mainly between qualified and disclaimer outcomes. Another problem the provincial government has struggled with is accruals where debts of the past years continue to spill into subsequent years, making departments operate on deficits. This challenge manifested itself more openly when Mahumapelo decided to put the departments of health, education and public works under comanagement a couple of years ago. There are no visible signs of progress to date as the three departments complain that they are worse off than they were before the comanagement. The health department told the provincial legislature portfolio committee comanagement was a misdiagnosis of their problem but there is not enough funding for health care in the province. Mahumapelo is expected to provide direction as to what the comanagement has achieved or not and whether it would be continued into the new financial year. The scourge of corruption and maladministration has assailed government departments. Recent incidents at the health department are a case in point. The premier is duty bound to assuage the masses that issues of corruption and fraud are frowned upon by his administration. What makes this more imperative is that some within the ANC and the opposition are alleging that the premier could be party to some of issues. “The premier will outline what government is doing to fight fraud, greedy and corruption in the province. He is aware that some people are making allegations about him but that will not distract him.” The internal and external opposition to Mahumapelo’s premiership has also increased over the years. Some went as far as calling for him to be barred from presenting this year’s Sopa. Setswambung said the premier was focussed on giving direction on the remaining months of his administration. “The premier is not deterred by false accusations against him. It’s a campaign orchestrated to tarnish his standing in society. He remains focussed to deliver on the programme of action for his administration He also understands the challenges that go along with the
position and will not allow these things to defocus and derail him,” he said. -ELFAS TORERAI