THE Mitchells Plain community have resolved to meet with senior police officers and councillors to discuss the increase in sexual attacks related to gang initiations. The community held a meeting this week to discuss the increase in criminal activities in the area.This followed reports that a 13-year old girl was gang-raped in the area last week. “The meeting was requested by the community in the area because of an incident that occurred last week. The problem is that many people are afraid to speak up because they are being threatened and sometimes cases are not reported for the same reason and we want to start addressing this matter collectively so that more people can come forward,” a spokesperson for the crisis forum Faizel Brown said. The community will meet with the police, local councillors and the department of social development next week. Meanwhile, from the small converted yard space where she lives and works, Joanie Fredericks has established a new organisation Mitchells Plain Impact Association. It coordinates searches for missing children in Cape Town and has found about 50 children with all but two who were brought home alive. Fredericks said the crisis forum started when the community ran out of patience after the gruesome rape and murder of 11-year-old Stacha Arendse in Tafelsig. Stacha disappeared in Mitchells Plain on the afternoon of March 27 last year and her body was found in the early hours of March 28 at a sports field in the area. Randy Tango, who lived a few metres away from her home in Matroosberg Street, said in a plea agreement with the state this week that he had vaginal and anal “sexual intercourse” with the child. There was also the case of rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters in Elsies River by her father’s best friend, Mortimer Saunders. Meanwhile, the murder and rape charges have been withdrawn against two men who were arrested after fouryear-old Iyapha Yamile’s body was found in Khayelitsha in August. Yamile was last seen playing with a friend near her home before her disappearance. Her parents reported her missing after searching the neighbourhood. Meanwhile, highlighting a shocking trend that has left families and communities desperate in the Western Cape, NGOs have said that the number of child murders in the province was currently just over 70. According to a study in 2016 one in every three young South Africans had experienced some form of sexual abuse in their lives. The Western Cape this past year experienced a high number of sexual crimes involving children and recent crime statistics showed an increase of 6% in sexual assault cases recorded for the 2016-17 financial year. provinces@thenewage.co.za