THE Ndebele Kingdom in Zimbabwe is looking to reclaim its place in history ahead of the coronation of the newly discovered prince Bulelani Colins Lobengula Khumalo who was born and bred in the Eastern Cape. The stage is now being set for the coronation of the new king of the Ndebele, with a massive ceremony at Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe next month. Prince Lobengula was traced and found through academics and indigenous research after the Amandebele throne had remained vacant since the last king was overthrown by colonial settlers in 1893. His father, King Lobengula took, the reins in 1870 after the death of his father Mzilikazi in 1868 and he was never succeeded. The 32 year old soon to be king is unmarried and has no children. Khumalo said he was nervous about the upcoming task. “I am aware I have a very big task ahead of me to lead a society that last had a leader 124 years ago. I am trembling like anyone else who is thrust into my situation. As things stand I am however confident I will, with the support of the elders, the traditional leaders, the crown council and everyone else, be able to pull through and do the right thing as expected and lead our people the right way.” Prince Hlabezulu Khumalo, a representative of the elders of the Khumalo family known as Iqoqo Labadala, said the position of the Khumalo royal family is that the kingship will be taken by Prince Bulelani who is a descendant of King Lobengula. “He is the one that is going to take the Kingship. He will be crowned on March 3. There is a process of determining who becomes the king among the princes. We have followed culture properly to ensure that we find the correct and right heir of the kingdom. It’s taken us 20 years to determine this and came to the point where on August 19, we announced officially the crown prince of the Ndebele kingdom,” he said. The Ndebele nation went on to show gratitude to the Xhosa king in Eastern Cape for keeping their heir for all these years. Last year the Khumalo family, duly mandated by the Ndebele-Mthwakazi people as dictated to by their traditions, historical precedents and cultural values, chiefs and many meetings by various cultural and civic groups, held a press conference to announce that Bulelani Colin Lobengula Khumalo is the prince to the throne. The prince is the son of prince Humphrey Mcedisi Lobengula, son of Prince Patrick Fana Boyd Lobengula, son of prince Rhodes Mpango Lobengula, son of prince Njube Lobengula Khumalo, son of king Lobhengula Khumalo, son of king Mzilikazi kaMatshobana. The family said the identification of the crown prince and the restoration of the monarch is based on the principle of inkosi izala inkosi which was operating on December 4, 1893 when king Lobhengula was overthrown by colonial settlers. The principle of inkosi izala inkosi means that one has to be a direct descendant of the king to be considered to take over the throne. dikeledir@thenewage.co.za -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA