THE Gauteng department of education is inviting all parents and guardians of children in public schools to make their voice heard by participating in the 2018 school governing bodies (SGB) elections. The department’s MEC Panyaza Lesufi yesterday launched the 2018 SGB elections at the Seshegong Secondary School as the three-year term of the current SGB members ends on February 28. The elections will take place from March 1 to 31 in all schools. “We need people who can lead our schools without fear or favour. We want to attract the best members of society to stand for elections. Your role as a parent, regardless of your race or background, is critical because it will assist the department to improve learning outcomes and enable us to reach the goal of providing quality education in all our schools,” Lesufi said. Elections will be managed by the department assisted by IEC and Corruption Watch. “The department appoints school electoral officers at the school, district and provincial level. The electoral officers are charged with running the elections assisted by electoral teams at the school district and provincial level. SGB associations observe elections to ensure they are free and fair,” the department’s spokesperson, Steve Mabona said. Mabona said any voter can declare a dispute with the presiding officer if they are not satisfied with the outcome which is then incumbent on the presiding officer to resolve the dispute. Lesufi implored on SGBs to appoint capable people based on credible experience saying it should not be about race, friendship or political affiliation. “Good schools stand on a good principal. Let’s find good solutions on especially principals’ appointments also not forgetting respecting all languages. No one language is superior to another.” Lesufi said. He said the department was embarrassed that members of the SGB of Nellmapius Primary were appearing in court facing charges of theft of school nutrition supplies. The department is set to host SGB election district dialogues from February 13 to 28, to create awareness on the elections and is encouraging parents to attend the dialogues to register their voice on the role of SGBs. shonisanit@thenewage.co.za -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE