PARENTS of schoolgirls aged nine have been called on to sign consent forms before the human papilloma virus (HPV) can be administered to them. North West health MEC Magome Masike made the appeal following an outcry from parents who objected to a situation in which nurses allegedly injected schoolgirls with contraceptives at a school in Ganyesa. Masike said parents had to sign consent forms to allow health officials to vaccinate their children. The Department of Health together with the Department of Education kickstarted the first round of HPV vaccinations from February 7. The campaign will run until March 27. It targets schoolgirls from the age of nine years. HPV is a group of more than 150 related viruses that are transmitted through sexual intercourse. The virus can infect the genital area and end up causing genital warts and a number of different cancers. Masike said the purpose of this intervention is to prevent cervical cancer and protect pupils against worm infestations. He said health professionals would soon start visiting public schools in the North West to administer free HPV vaccinations. “The department runs the campaign twice a year. The second dose will be administered from August 22 to September 27,” he said. Masike said the success of an immunisation campaign such as this is highly dependent on the parental acceptance of the vaccine as an effective life-saving immunisation. “It is important that we protect our children, future women of South Africa against cervical cancer. The focus here is prevention and promotion rather than curative. “I am therefore appealing to all communities to inform parents, guardians and extended families of these young girls that the vaccination is available and is free,” he said. Once signed, the forms have to be returned to schools so that they are available in school on the day of the vaccinations. “Parents need to ensure they have signed and returned the consent forms which they will receive from the school that their child attends. No girl will be vaccinated without parental consent,” Masike said. elfast@thenewage.co.za -ELFAS TORERAI