IN JUST four weeks, at least 10 traffic officers have been murdered across Gauteng. The rising death toll of municipal traffic officers who have been killed in the space of one month has left a spark of anger and sadness. Community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane expressed shock and disgust at the senseless killing of metro police officers at the weekend. Nkosi-Malobane said the province had been robbed of selfless and dedicated members of their law enforcement agencies. “I am totally taken aback by these brazen attacks and disregard for our police officers by these callous criminals,” she said. “Such acts of brutality cannot go unpunished and I am confident that our investigation team will work around the clock to ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes are brought to book.” Recently, the province lost two metro police officers in separate incidents, when a Johannesburg metro police was shot dead in an armed robbery at Ivory Park, while a Tshwane metro police officer was found dead in his flat in Pretoria. TMPD spokesperson Isaac Mahamba said Thinus Swart was found by his colleague in a pool of blood with a bullet wound in his flat in the Hercules area at midday on Saturday. “The constable was supposed to report for duty but he did not show up,” Mahamba said. “His colleagues made numerous phone calls trying to get hold of him to no avail. “One colleague who stays in the same complex with him decided to check up on him and that is when he made the gruesome discovery.” Public safety spokesperson Luyanda Longwe said the 47-year-old part-time traffic officer, who was offduty on Friday night and dressed in civilian clothing, witnessed an armed robbery near Busy Corner in Ivory Park. “When he tried to intervene, three armed robbers opened fire and shot him in the arm and chest. He died on the scene,” Longwe said. Previously, Azwinndini David Ratshikhopa, Winnie Mokgolo, Sophie Ngoasheng and Fanyana Makhubu were killed in different incidents. “Ratshikhopa was shot in the head when he tried to stop a hijacking in Booysens, south of Johannesburg, during the early hours of Tuesday. He succumbed to his injuries on Valentine’s Day at Milpark hospital.” While EMPD officer Fanyana Makhubu was fatally shot during a robbery at an Engen garage in Selcourt, Springs, where robbers used explosives to blow up the drop-in safe at the garage shop and took an undisclosed amount of money and cigarettes. The city has requested the provincial commissioner to assist with metro police killings and make it one of the top priorities in order for the perpetrators to be put to book. charloteh@thenewage.co.za -CHARLOTE HLANGWANE