HUNDREDS of pro-Jacob Zuma supporters from KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and Mpumalanga are expected to converge on Pretoria today in what they describe as a move “to protect their president against a coup”. A close adviser to Zuma confirmed to this publication that “unwarranted” attacks on Zuma supporters outside the ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters was a “declaration of war” and that “they fear for the safety of the president”. “All I can reveal is that we’re not happy about the way Msholozi is being treated. He is the head of state. Why must he be embarrassed? If a fight must happen then it must happen,” the adviser said. Chaos engulfed the Johannesburg CBD yesterday as a result of violent clashes between pro- and anti-Zuma supporters before a crucial national working committee meeting convened to discuss Zuma’s future. Yesterday, an unrepentant Zuma told the party’s officials that he “was going nowhere”. Various sources confirmed to The New Age that a mood of “uncertainty” had prevailed at the NWC. “The spectre of more violence is forcing the leadership to tread carefully when dealing with the future of the president,” the sources said. At the time of going to press, the NWC meeting was still grappling with the Zuma conundrum. Earlier yesterday, Zuma met with Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu at his Ondini Royal Palace in Ulundi. In statement, the Presidency confirmed the meeting and described it as a “long-standing courtesy meeting between the president and His Majesty which was initially meant to take place in January but was postponed due to diary challenges on both sides”. However, sources in the ANC described the meeting as “a strategic move by the president to obtain his majesty’s blessing to complete his term as president”. Meanwhile, the ANC’s Greater Johannesburg region confirmed that a branch secretary, Thabiso Setona, was suspended after images of him kicking a woman on the ground flashed across social media platforms. The party also confirmed that Setona had handed himself over to the police. ANC Joburg regional spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said: “As the ANC in Joburg we strongly condemn any acts of violence against any person, more so women. The ANC Greater Joburg does not subscribe to the notion of people violently assaulting those who hold contrasting political views.” ANC national spokesperson Khusela Diko also condemned the violence outside the party’s headquarters. “The ANC condemns in the strongest possible terms the assault of protesters by a grouping outside the ANC headquarters, Chief Albert Luthuli House, earlier today . “Regardless of what some may deem as provocation by the Black First Land First Movement who intended to march to Luthuli House, there will never be any justification for scenes as the ones witnessed today. Disturbing in the extreme is the assault of women in such a callous and dehumanising manner,” Diko said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO AND REFILWE MAGASHULE