Newly appointed Police Minister Bheki Cele has been largely warmly welcomed by many South African Twitter users, with fewer people expressing their unhappiness at his appointment. Cele was announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa as the new Police Minister on Monday when he announced changes to his Cabinet. Several South African personalities have taken to Twitter to express themselves on Ramaphosa’s Cabinet reshuffle, especially the appointment of Cele as a Minister of Police. Veteran TV and radio personality Redi Tlhabi expressed her surprise and asked if South Africans remembered why Cele was fired in the first place. Why did Bheki Cele lose his job as Police Commissioner again? So he comes back as Minister? I like him a lot, get along with him but facts and principles matter — Redi Tlhabi (@RediTlhabi) February 26, 2018 Cele was fired as police chief in 2012 after he was fingered in a property leasing scandal in involving Roux Shabangu. In stark contrast to Tlhabi’s surprise, many users believe Cele is just the right man to motivate the police and get them to do their jobs. Celebrity social activist and former 702 head of programming Yusuf Abramjee welcomed Cele to the position. When #BhekiCele was National Police Commissioner, he made his mark. I’m confident he is going to make a real difference as Minister. Let’s all join hands and @MakeSAsafe – @CyrilRamaphosa @GovernmentZA pic.twitter.com/qLRtAd8Zh5 — Yusuf Abramjee (@Abramjee) February 27, 2018 Ousted former Police Minister Fikile Mbalula congratulated Cele, wishing him the best. I support the president reshuffle , Personally I think BHEKI Cele will do a fantastic job YES I didn’t expect to b removed but I accept the https://t.co/fkJ00SrVjU now at Luthuli house peace!!! — ANC Elections Chair (@MbalulaFikile) February 26, 2018 Good regards to BHEKI Cele I know he will do a good job bopha Ndosi #CabinetReshuffle — ANC Elections Chair (@MbalulaFikile) February 26, 2018 Bhekokwakhe Bheki Hamilton Cele was born 22 April 1952 in Umzube in KwaZulu-Natal. Prior to his appointment as Minister of Police, Cele worked as a Deputy Minister of Forestry and Fisheries. He is a founding member of National Education Union of South Africa. Cele served as a Member of the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Legislature and a member of the KwaZulu-Natal Executive Council led by Premier Sbu Ndebele. He also formerly served as the MEC of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison in KwaZulu-Natal. He was appointed as the National Commissioner of the South African Police Service in 2009 until he was suspended from the position in October 2011 following allegations of corruption linked to the leasing of properties in Pretoria until his dismissal by former President Jacob Zuma in June 2012. During the ANC’s National Conference in December, Cele was voted as a member of the party’s highest decision-making body, the National Executive Committee (NEC) -TNA Reporter