A CRUCIAL meeting of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) national executive committee (NEC) due to have begun formal preparations for its forthcoming national elective conference was shelved at the weekend. As the race to find a successor to league president Collen Maine heats up, ANCYL treasurer Reggie Nkabinde and Kwazulu-Natal provincial secretary Thandoxulo Sabelo are among the leading names touted to replace Maine, when the league conference sits later this year. The league has also been battling to contain its succession debate at its structures in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal had already nailed their colours to the mast before the league’s succession debate had been formally opened. ANCYL national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said “sinister reasons” did not play part in the league’s postponement of its meeting. When pressed further, Mlondi said competing schedules among league leaders led to the meeting be postponed to Saturday. The league’s NEC meeting also came against the background of a tense national leadership struggle to manage a leadership transition in relation to President Jacob Zuma’s exit. Maine, who is also an ANC NEC member is due to sit in today’s emergency NEC meeting set to decide on Zuma’s fate. Regarding, fears that the league’s succession race will resemble the ANC’s leadership stampede that saw an unprecedented eight candidates vie for the party’s presidency, Mkhize said he believed the league would have relatively fewer candidates. “Nothing as yet has been put on the table (presidential nominations), but we won’t go past four candidates. “The ANC, ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) and Youth League are all guided by one document, through the eye of the needle. “We hope that we will not reach a situation like that where we have seven or eightcandidates,” Mkhize said. Mkhize also acknowledged that keeping a lid on the league’s succession debate was always going to be an uphill battle. “You can’t always prevent when some one who say’s I’m available. People are supported by others,” he said. ANCYL Kwazulu-Natal chairperson Kwazi Mshengu told The New Age yesterday that the province already began lobbying other structures to favour Sabelo for the league presidency. “Indeed, we’ve already begun engaging with other provinces, but we want to keep it as clean as possible so it does not lead to factionalism and polarisation  in the ANC,” he said. Mshengu listed reasons as to why he believed Sabelo would be better placed to succeed Maine. “The youth league comes from a period where it has lost its voice and standing in society and it needs to be repositioned so that it can embody the aspirations of young people. “Thandoxulo is that person who will lead the process. His energy, his dynamism makes him a better candidate to lead the ANCYL,” Mshengu said. ANCYL Gauteng chairperson Matome Chiloane said that while the leagues provincial executive committee had yet to meet to formally endorse a candidate, Nkabinde’s name was dominating in succession talks in the province. “He has significant support in Gauteng,” Chiloane said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO