SCHOOLS must be sensitive to the needs of pupils when they handle the issue of illegal immigrants, the Education for Social Justice Foundation has said. This after a Pretoria school threatened some of its pupils that they would face deportation if their parents did not submit the required documents, such as permits. Sunnyside Primary School allegedly tried to exclude pupils whose parents had not yet submitted valid documents. Education activist Hendrick Makaneta said no pupil should be taken out of school even if they did not have the proper documentation. “We call on Minister Angie Motshekga to urgently address the issue of illegal immigrants at Sunnyside Primary. Pupils should not be excluded from teaching and learning because their parents failed to supply the school with permits,” Makaneta said. “The foundation calls on the minister to allow illegal immigrants’ kids to finish their studies before they are deported back to their respective countries.” He said the foundation would not hesitate to approach the Equality Court in order to safeguard the rights of pupils to study in a conducive environment. “We have human rights lawyers on standby and we will not hesitate to take action should pupils be refused basic education at school level.” He called on the departments of Basic Education and Home Affairs to ensure that such problems are eradicated long before the start of the academic year in order to avoid putting unnecessary strain on innocent pupils. “The issue of permits must be resolved a year prior to the commencement of the academic year. The school cannot just announce in the middle of the term that pupils must vacate the premises.” The foundation said the incoming school governing bodies should familiarise themselves with education law and the South African Schools Act in order to develop the necessary capacity to resolve many challenges facing the system. The Department of Basic Education said all pupils are supposed to have identification documents and that the adults are required to ensure that the children are properly documented so they can benefit from social services. “The department needs to account for each and every pupil in the system for funding purposes. “A school has a right to ask pupils to produce identification. We have many pupils who attend school without documentation and then get stuck later on because they don’t have documents,” department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said. “The law requires everyone to be properly registered in the citizen’s register. “We request the people responsible for the child to assist us with documents by approaching the Department of Home Affairs for assistance. Schools become frustrated when guardians. -LILLIAN SELAPISA