DURING the tense process to manage the “leadership transition”, ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile’s account of behind closed doors discussions on President Jacob Zuma’s “exit” has threatened to scupper ongoing talks between Zuma and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa, ANC Youth League (ANCYL) secretary-general Njabulo
Nzuza said. Nzuzu said yesterday Mashatile’s comments to investors at the recent Mining Indaba in Cape Town had stoked the ire of the league and called for the matter to be taken up in the next sitting of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) on February 17. While the writing seems to be on the wall that Zuma’s exit from office is imminent, Nzuza insisted that the agenda at Zuma’s recent meeting with senior party officials at his official presidential residence in Pretoria “was not to ask the president to step down”. “Mashatile and the officials as part of the delegation, were never sent by the NEC to tell President Zuma to resign.
“So it is wrong for him to utter in public meetings statements that Zuma is refusing to resign when they were never sent to go and tell him that,” Nzuza said. This comes as Mashatile in a meeting with investors attempted to calm their anxiety over Zuma’s exit talks, arguing that the NEC delegation had told Zuma to hand over power to Ramaphosa to effect the much vaunted transition. “We have been talking about a word, we just coined it, it’s a word called “managing” the transition. “And, interestingly, on Sunday evening, President Zuma says to us: ‘What do you guys mean by transition?’ So we said to him, it’s handing over power from you to Cyril,” Mashatile said. “We were saying to President Zuma on Sunday that we don’t want two centres of power, we want President Ramaphosa to take control. “Not only in the ANC, but on affairs in the state. Our view as the leadership of the ANC is that the sooner the president of the republic steps down for new leadership to take over, the better,” Mashatile said at the Mining Indaba. Nzuza issued a strident rebuke against Mashatile, stopping short of calling him an opportunist. “This is very bad for the organisation because it shows that there are those who have been negotiating in bad faith around this issue of the transition.
“Whereas, they have already taken
decisions. “The NEC said officials must go and discuss the transition, make recommendations and send those recommendations to the NEC for a final decision,” Nzuza said. However, ANC Veterans League (ANCVL) president Snuki Zikalala said the shelved NEC meeting was going to fire Zuma. “The majority of NEC members were going to say that the president must be recalled,” he said. Regarding Zuma and Ramaphosa’s ongoing talks, Zikalala said: “Our view is that the president has agreed to resign. “This should happen as soon as possible so that Ramaphosa can deliver the Sona address.” Crunch talks between Zuma and Ramaphosa at Tuynhuys on Tuesday night led to the shelving of both the ruling party’s NEC meeting that was set to decide on Zuma fate – as well as yesterday’s state of the nation address (Sona), which opposition parties were preparing to block through threats of disruption and court action. Meanwhile, social media has been abuzz with pro and anti Zuma writers calling on the ANC to come out with the truth. -bonolos@thenewage.co.za