A LAND dispute between a Taiwanbased company and a group calling itself Gauteng Community has become a volatile situation, forcing the police to deploy members in the Midrand area for the past three weeks. Yesterday, the police had to guard the area to prevent the group, some armed with traditional weapons, from invading the vacant land registered in the name of Taroko Development, a company based in Taipei. Earlier this month the company served the group, whose members had already started building shacks and allocating themselves building stands, with a court interdict. Since then, the police, traffic officers and private security companies have had to be deployed in the area to prevent the land invasion. The group’s leader, Solomon Molepo, said the piece of land in dispute was already earmarked for development and that 3000 people had registered for houses to be built on it. Molepo, who was one of the people who arrived carrying spades and shovels ready to erect structures, said the community was made up of people from Johannesburg, Pretoria, Tembisa and Midrand who had gone to the government to ask for land to build houses on. He said they were told to identify vacant land and revert back to the housing department. “We found this land in Klipfontein and when we checked, we found that it belonged to no one, market value showed it was null,” Molepo said. He said the Gauteng Community group was prepared to defy the court order. Police spokesperson Mavela Masondo confirmed that there was an active order against the group. “We received a court interdict to remove the Klipfontein View protesters from a piece of land. As far as I know the community have invaded the land,” Masondo said. The New Age spoke to a Taroko Development representative who wanted to be identified only as Mr Kruger. He said the matter was now in the hands of the courts and that his clients had obtained the land legitimately and legally. “I will not comment. If this was not the case then why would we take the matter to court?” Mayoral committee member for public safety in the city of Johannesburg said they had encouraged the private owner to secure his land. He said they had previously helped to stabilise the situation when there were about 1000 invaders. “We are trying to find out what led to this invasion as some of the people travelled from far to be part of the invasion. The city is ware of this matter,” he said. The unrest forced motorists to divert from the busy Allandale Road and use alternative routes. A passer-by accused the group of being the same syndicates operating in parts of Gauteng. -KUTULLO MADISHA A LAND dispute between a