THE Gauteng department of education said it was still waiting for a report from the investigative team on the allegations against the school governing body, the principal, the district office and the teachers at Eldorado Park Secondary School (Blue School). This comes after the teachers were accused of being against the principal due to his race. The group is reporting to the district office instead of the school. The department confirmed that eight teachers at the school opted to report to the district office after lodging complaints of victimisation against them. “It was agreed that while waiting for finalisation of the investigation, the school was empowered to find replacement teachers to teach in the interim. We can confirm that five replacement teachers were appointed and are teaching, however the school must finalise the appointment of other replacements accordingly,” departmental spokesperson Steve Mabona said. The department has appealed to people not to disrupt schooling as they were still waiting for the investigative body to complete the investigation. Patriots for Equality movement’s Anthony Williams said the community had to intervene on Monday morning as the teachers were encouraging pupils to march to the district office with them. “We went there early in the morning to make sure that no pupil boarded any transport without their parents’ consent because it is illegal to do that. “A few pupils’ groups were adamant that they were going to march to the district office because they did not agree with the principal of the school,” he said. Meanwhile, the DA said it would visit the school today to assess the impact the racial incident and absence of teachers has had on teaching and learning. The party is demanding that the actions of the teachers be viewed as having absconded from work and should be subjected to disciplinary action. “Sadtu has been disrupting learning and teaching since schools reopened. “This can no longer be tolerated and must come to an end. Both the education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and the Gauteng Premier David Makhura have remained silent on this serious issue while our pupils are denied the right to learn,” Khume Ramulifho, DA Gauteng shadow MEC for education said. shonisanit@thenewage.co.za -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE 